L 176/338 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
DIRECTIVES
DIRECTIVE 2013/36/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 26 June 2013
on access to the activity of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions
and investment firms, amending Directive 2002/87/EC and repealing Directives 2006/48/EC and
2006/49/EC
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE Annexes to Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC
EUROPEAN UNION, should be integrated into the enacting terms of this
Directive and of that Regulation.
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Union, and in particular Article 53(1) thereof,
(2) This Directive should, inter alia, contain the provisions
governing the authorisation of the business, the
acquisition of qualifying holdings, the exercise of the
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, freedom of establishment and of the freedom to
provide services, the powers of supervisory authorities
of home and host Member States in this regard and
the provisions governing the initial capital and the super­
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national visory review of credit institutions and investment firms.
parliaments, The main objective and subject-matter of this Directive is
to coordinate national provisions concerning access to
the activity of credit institutions and investment firms,
the modalities for their governance, and their supervisory
Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank ( 1) , framework. Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC also
contained prudential requirements for credit institutions
and investment firms. Those requirements should be
provided for in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, which
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, establishes uniform and directly applicable prudential
requirements for credit institutions and investment
firms, since such requirements are closely related to the
functioning of financial markets in respect of a number
Whereas: of assets held by credit institutions and investment firms.
This Directive should therefore be read together with
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and should, together
with that Regulation, form the legal framework
(1) Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of governing banking activities, the supervisory framework
the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up and the prudential rules for credit institutions and
and pursuit of the business of credit institutions ( 2 ) and investment firms.
Directive 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of
investment firms and credit institutions ( 3 ) have been
significantly amended on several occasions. Many
provisions of Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC (3) The general prudential requirements laid down in Regu­
are applicable to both credit institutions and investment lation (EU) No 575/2013 are supplemented by individual
firms. For the sake of clarity and in order to ensure a arrangements to be decided by the competent authorities
coherent application of those provisions, they should be as a result of their ongoing supervisory review of each
merged into new legislative acts that are applicable to individual credit institution and investment firm. The
both credit institutions and investment firms, namely range of such supervisory arrangements should, inter
this Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the alia, be set out in this Directive and the competent auth­
European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June orities should be able to exercise their judgment as to
2013 ( 4 ). For greater accessibility, the provisions of the which arrangements should be imposed. With regard to
such individual arrangements concerning liquidity, the
competent authorities should, inter alia, take into
(
(
1
2
)
)
O OJ
J
C
L
11 70 75 ,, 31 01 .. 64 .. 22 00 01 62 ,, pp .. 11 ..
account the principles set out in the Committee of
( 3 ) OJ L 177, 30.6.2006, p. 201. European Banking Supervisors' Guidelines on Liquidity
( 4 ) See page 1 of this Official Journal. Cost Benefit Allocation of 27 October 2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/339
(4) Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of union. This reflects the principle that any introduction of
the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial common intervention mechanisms in the event of a crisis
instruments ( 1) allows investment firms authorised by the should be preceded by common controls to reduce the
competent authorities of their home Member State and likelihood that such intervention mechanisms will have
supervised by the same authorities to establish branches to be used. The European Council noted in its
and provide services freely in other Member States. That conclusions of 14 December 2012 that "the Commission
Directive accordingly provides for the coordination of the will submit in the course of 2013 a proposal for a single
rules governing the authorisation and pursuit of the resolution mechanism for Member States participating in
business of investment firms. It does not, however, the SSM, to be examined by co-legislators as a matter of
establish the amounts of the initial capital of such priority with the intention of adopting it during the
firms or a common framework for monitoring the current parliamentary cycle.". The integration of the
risks incurred by them, which should be provided by financial framework could be further enhanced through
this Directive. the setting up of a single resolution mechanism,
including appropriate and effective backstop
arrangements to ensure that bank resolution decisions
are taken swiftly, impartially and in the best interests
of all concerned.
(5) This Directive should constitute the essential instrument
for the achievement of the internal market from the
point of view of both the freedom of establishment
and the freedom to provide financial services in the
field of credit institutions. (10) The conferral of supervisory tasks on the European
Central Bank (ECB) for some of the Member States
should be consistent with the framework of the
European System of Financial Supervision set up in
2010 and its underlying objective to develop the single
(6) The smooth operation of the internal market requires not
rulebook and enhance convergence of supervisory
only legal rules but also close and regular cooperation
practices across the Union as a whole. The ECB should
and significantly enhanced convergence of regulatory and
carry out its tasks subject to and in compliance with any
supervisory practices between the competent authorities
relevant primary and secondary Union law, Commission
of the Member States.
decisions in the areas of State aid, competition rules and
merger control and the single rulebook applying to all
Member States. EBA is entrusted with developing draft
technical standards and guidelines and recommendations
to ensure supervisory convergence and consistency of
(7) Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European
Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ) established the
supervisory outcomes within the Union. The ECB
should not carry out those tasks, but should exercise
European Supervisory Authority (European Banking
powers to adopt regulations under Article 132 of the
Authority) ("EBA"). This Directive should take into
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
account the role and function of EBA set out in that
(TFEU) in accordance with acts adopted by the
Regulation and the procedures to be followed when
Commission on the basis of drafts developed by EBA
conferring tasks on EBA.
and with guidelines and recommendation under
Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(8) Given the increase of tasks conferred on EBA by this
Directive and by Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the
European Parliament, the Council and the Commission (11) EBA's legally binding mediation role is a key element of
the promotion of coordination, supervisory consistency
should ensure that adequate human and financial
and convergence of supervisory practices. Mediation by
resources are made available.
EBA can be initiated either on its own initiative where
specifically provided for, or upon request by one or more
competent authorities in the event of a disagreement.
This Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013
(9) As a first step towards a banking union, a single super­ should extend the range of situations in which EBA
visory mechanism (SSM) should ensure that the Union's can initiate its legally binding mediation role with a
policy relating to the prudential supervision of credit view to contributing to consistency in supervisory prac­
institutions is implemented in a coherent and effective tices. EBA has no own-initiative mediation role with
manner, that the single rulebook for financial services is regard to the designation of significant branches and
applied in the same manner to credit institutions in all the determination of institution-specific prudential
Member States concerned, and that those credit insti­ requirements under this Directive. However, in order to
tutions are subject to supervision of the highest quality, promote coordination and enhance consistent super­
unfettered by other, non-prudential considerations. An visory practices in those sensitive areas, competent auth­
SSM is the basis for the next steps towards a banking orities should have recourse to EBA mediation at an early
stage of the process in the event of a disagreement. Such
( 1 ) OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1. early EBA mediation should facilitate finding a resolution
( 2 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12. to the disagreement.
L 176/340 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(12) In order to protect savings and to create equal conditions responsibility for exercising supervision on a
of competition between credit institutions, measures to consolidated basis should be changed only with the
coordinate the supervision of credit institutions should agreement of those competent authorities.
apply to all of them. Due regard should, however, be
had to the objective differences in their statutes and
aims as laid down in national law.
(17) The competent authorities should not authorise or
continue to authorise a credit institution where they
are liable to be prevented from effectively exercising
their supervisory functions by the close links between
(13) In order to ensure a well-functioning internal market,
that institution and other natural or legal persons.
transparent, predictable and harmonised supervisory
Credit institutions already authorised should also satisfy
practices and decisions are necessary for conducting
the competent authorities in respect of such close links.
business and steering cross-border groups of credit insti­
tutions. EBA should therefore enhance harmonisation of
supervisory practices. Supervisory processes and decisions
should not hamper the functioning of the internal (18) The reference to the supervisory authorities' effective
market with regard to the free flow of capital. Super­ exercise of their supervisory functions covers supervision
visory colleges should ensure a common and aligned on a consolidated basis which should be exercised over a
work programme and harmonised supervisory decisions. credit institution or investment firm where Union law so
Cooperation between the competent authorities of the provides. In such cases, the authorities applied to for
home and host Member States should be strengthened authorisation should be able to identify the authorities
through a higher degree of transparency and information competent to exercise supervision on a consolidated basis
sharing. over that credit institution or investment firm.
(19) Credit institutions authorised in their home Member
(14) The scope of measures should therefore be as broad as
States should be allowed to carry out throughout the
possible, covering all institutions whose business is to
Union any or all of the activities referred to in the list
receive repayable funds from the public, whether in the
of activities subject to mutual recognition by establishing
form of deposits or in other forms such as the
branches or by providing services.
continuing issue of bonds and other comparable
securities and to grant credits for their own account.
Exceptions should be provided for in the case of
certain credit institutions to which this Directive does (20) It is appropriate to extend mutual recognition to those
not apply. This Directive should not affect the application activities where they are carried out by financial insti­
of national laws which provide for special supplementary tutions which are subsidiaries of credit institutions,
authorisations permitting credit institutions to carry out provided that such subsidiaries are covered by the
specific activities or undertake specific kinds of oper­ consolidated supervision of their parent undertakings
ations. and meet certain strict conditions.
(21) The host Member State should be able, in connection
(15) It is appropriate to effect harmonisation which is
with the exercise of the right of establishment and the
necessary and sufficient to secure the mutual recognition
freedom to provide services, to require compliance with
of authorisation and of prudential supervision systems,
specific provisions of its own national laws or regulations
making possible the granting of a single licence
on the part of entities not authorised as credit insti­
recognised throughout the Union and the application
tutions in their home Member States and with regard
of the principle of home Member State prudential super­
to activities not referred to in the list of activities
vision.
subject to mutual recognition, provided that, on the
one hand, such provisions are not already provided for
in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, are compatible with
Union law and are intended to protect the general
(16) The principles of mutual recognition and home Member
good and that, on the other, such entities or such
State supervision require that Member States' competent
activities are not subject to equivalent rules under the
authorities should refuse or withdraw authorisation
laws or regulations of their home Member States.
where factors such as the content of the activities
programme, the geographical distribution of activities
or the activities actually carried out indicate clearly that
a credit institution has opted for the legal system of one (22) In addition to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 which
Member State for the purpose of evading the stricter establishes directly applicable prudential requirements
standards in force in another Member State within for credit institutions and investment firms, Member
whose territory it carries out or intends to carry out States should ensure that there are no obstacles to
the greater part of its activities. Where there is no such carrying out activities receiving mutual recognition in
clear indication, but the majority of the total assets of the the same manner as in the home Member State,
entities in a banking group is located in another Member provided that the latter do not conflict with legal
State, the competent authorities of which are responsible provisions protecting the general good in the host
for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis, Member State.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/341
(23) The rules governing branches of credit institutions having within their territories comply with the relevant laws and
their head office in a third country should be analogous with the principles of sound administrative and
in all Member States. It is important to provide that such accounting procedures and adequate internal control.
rules are not more favourable than those applicable to
branches of credit institutions from another Member
State. The Union should be able to conclude agreements
with third countries providing for the application of rules (29) It is appropriate to allow the exchange of information
which accord such branches the same treatment between the competent authorities and authorities or
throughout its territory. Branches of credit institutions bodies which, by virtue of their function, help to
authorised in third countries should not enjoy the strengthen the stability of the financial system. In order
freedom to provide services or the freedom of estab­ to preserve the confidential nature of the information
lishment in Member States other than those in which forwarded, the list of addressees should be strictly
they are established. limited.
(24) Agreement should be reached between the Union and (30) Certain behaviour, such as fraud or insider dealing, is
third countries with a view to allowing the practical liable to affect the stability and the integrity of the
exercise of consolidated supervision over the largest financial system. It is necessary to specify the conditions
possible geographical area. under which exchange of information in such cases is
authorised.
(25) Responsibility for supervising the financial soundness of
a credit institution and in particular its solvency on a
(31) Where it is stipulated that information may be disclosed
consolidated basis should lie with its home Member
only with the express agreement of the competent auth­
State. The supervision of Union banking groups should
orities, the competent authorities should be able to make
be the subject of close cooperation between the
their agreement subject to compliance with strict
competent authorities of the home and host Member
conditions.
States.
(32) Exchanges of information should be authorised between
(26) The competent authorities of host Member States should
the competent authorities and central banks and other
have the power to carry out, on a case-by-case basis, on-
bodies with a similar function in their capacity as
the-spot checks and inspections of the activities of
monetary authorities and, where necessary for reasons
branches of institutions on their territory and require
of prudential supervision, prevention and resolution of
information from a branch about its activities and for
failing institutions and in emergency situations, if
statistical, informational, or supervisory purposes, where
relevant, other public authorities and departments of
the host Member States consider it relevant for reasons
central government administrations responsible for
of stability of the financial system.
drawing up legislation on the supervision of credit insti­
tutions, financial institutions, investment services and
insurance companies, and public authorities responsible
(27) The competent authorities of the host Member States for supervising payment systems.
should obtain information about activities carried out
in their territories. Supervisory measures should be
taken by the competent authorities of the home
Member State unless the competent authorities of the (33) For the purposes of strengthening the prudential super­
vision of institutions and the protection of clients of
host Member States have to take precautionary
institutions, auditors should have a duty to report
emergency measures.
promptly to the competent authorities, wherever,
during the performance of their tasks, they become
aware of certain facts which are liable to have a serious
(28) The smooth operation of the internal banking market effect on the financial situation or the administrative and
requires not only legal rules but also close and regular accounting organisation of an institution. For the same
cooperation and significantly enhanced convergence of reason Member States should also provide that such a
regulatory and supervisory practices between the duty applies in all circumstances where such facts are
competent authorities of the Member States. To that discovered by an auditor during the performance of his
end, consideration of problems concerning individual tasks in an undertaking which has close links with an
credit institutions and the mutual exchange of institution. The duty of auditors to communicate, where
information should take place through EBA. That appropriate, to the competent authorities certain facts
mutual information procedure should not replace and decisions concerning an institution which they
bilateral cooperation. Competent authorities of the host discover during the performance of their tasks in a
Member States should always be able, in an emergency, non-financial undertaking should not in itself change
on their own initiative or on the initiative of the the nature of their tasks in that undertaking nor the
competent authorities of the home Member State, to manner in which they should perform those tasks in
check that the activities of a credit institution established that undertaking.
L 176/342 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(34) This Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 aim to (39) For the purposes of assessing the good repute of
ensure the solvency of institutions. If, notwithstanding directors and members of a management body, an
the solvency requirements, a crisis occurs, it is efficient system of exchange of information is required
necessary to ensure that institutions can be resolved in where EBA, subject to professional secrecy and data
an orderly manner, limiting the negative impact on the protection requirements, should be entitled to maintain
real economy and avoiding the need for taxpayers to step a central database containing details of administrative
in. For that purpose, pending further coordination at penalties, including any appeals in relation thereto,
Union level, EBA should assess and coordinate initiatives, which is accessible to competent authorities only. In
in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, on any event, information about criminal convictions
recovery and resolution plans with a view to promoting should be exchanged in accordance with Framework
convergence in that area. To that end, EBA should be Decision 2009/315/JHA ( 1 ) and Decision
fully informed in advance of the organisation of meetings 2009/316/JHA ( 2 ), as transposed into national law, and
on recovery and resolution plans and should be entitled with other relevant provisions of national law.
to participate in such meetings. Some Member States'
authorities have already introduced obligations for insti­
tutions and authorities to prepare recovery and
resolution plans. It is therefore appropriate that insti­
tutions be required to cooperate with authorities in
(40) In order to detect potential breaches of national
that regard. Where a recovery or resolution plan is
provisions transposing this Directive and of Regulation
being drafted, EBA should contribute to and participate
(EU) No 575/2013, competent authorities should have
actively in the development and coordination of effective
the necessary investigatory powers and should establish
and consistent recovery and resolution plans in
effective mechanisms to encourage reporting of potential
accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
or actual breaches. Those mechanisms should be without
Priority should be given where such plans involve
prejudice to the rights of the defence of anyone who has
systemically important institutions.
been charged.
(35) In order to ensure compliance with the obligations
deriving from this Directive and from Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 by institutions, by those who effectively (41) This Directive should provide for administrative penalties
control the business of an institution and by the and other administrative measures in order to ensure the
members of an institution's management body, and to greatest possible scope for action following a breach and
ensure similar treatment across the Union, Member States to help prevent further breaches, irrespective of their
should be required to provide for administrative penalties qualification as an administrative penalty or other admin­
and other administrative measures which are effective, istrative measure under national law. Member States
proportionate and dissuasive. Therefore, administrative should be able to provide for additional penalties to,
penalties and other administrative measures laid down and higher level of administrative pecuniary penalties
by Member States should satisfy certain essential than, those provided for in this Directive.
requirements in relation to addressees, the criteria to be
taken into account in their application, their publication,
key powers to impose penalties and levels of adminis­
trative pecuniary penalties.
(42) This Directive should be without prejudice to any
provisions in the law of Member States relating to
criminal penalties.
(36) In particular, competent authorities should be
empowered to impose administrative pecuniary
penalties which are sufficiently high to offset the
benefits that can be expected and to be dissuasive even
to larger institutions and their managers.
(43) Member States should ensure that credit institutions and
investment firms have internal capital that, having regard
to the risks to which they are or may be exposed, is
(37) In order to ensure a consistent application of adminis­ adequate in quantity, quality and distribution. Accord­
trative penalties or other administrative measures across ingly, Member States should ensure that credit insti­
Member States, when determining the type of adminis­ tutions and investment firms have strategies and
trative penalties or other administrative measures and the processes in place for assessing and maintaining the
level of administrative pecuniary penalties Member States adequacy of their internal capital.
should be required to ensure that the competent auth­
orities take into account all relevant circumstances. ( 1 ) Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009
on the organisation and content of the exchange of information
extracted from the criminal record between Member States
(OJ L 93, 7.4.2009, p. 23).
(38) In order to ensure that administrative penalties have a
( 2 ) Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the estab­
lishment of the European Criminal Records Information System
dissuasive effect, they should normally be published (ECRIS) in application of Article 11 of Framework Decision
except in certain well-defined circumstances. 2009/315/JHA (OJ L 93, 7.4.2009, p. 33).
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/343
(44) Competent authorities should be entrusted with ensuring the sound and prudent management of credit institu­
that institutions have a good organisation and adequate tions. In order to secure a sustainable and diverse
own funds, having regard to the risks to which the insti­ Union banking culture which primarily serves the
tutions are or might be exposed. interest of the citizens of the Union, small-scale
banking activities, such as those of credit unions and
cooperative banks, should be encouraged.
(45) To ensure that institutions which are active in several
Member States are not disproportionately burdened as
(50) The mandates of competent authorities should take into
a result of the continued responsibilities of individual
account, in an appropriate manner, the Union
Member State competent authorities as regards authori­
dimension. Competent authorities should therefore duly
sation and supervision, it is essential to significantly
consider the effect of their decisions not only on the
enhance the cooperation between competent authorities.
stability of the financial system in their jurisdiction but
EBA should facilitate and enhance such cooperation.
also in all other Member States concerned. Subject to
national law, that principle should serve to promote
financial stability across the Union and should not
legally bind competent authorities to achieve a specific
(46) In order to ensure comprehensive market discipline result.
across the Union, it is appropriate that competent auth­
orities publish information concerning the carrying out
of the business of credit institutions and investment
firms. Such information should be sufficient to enable (51) The financial crisis demonstrated links between the
a comparison of the approaches adopted by the banking sector and so-called 'shadow banking'. Some
different competent authorities of the Member States shadow banking usefully keeps risks separate from the
and complement requirements found in Regulation (EU) banking sector and hence avoids potential negative
No 575/2013 regarding disclosure of technical effects on taxpayers and systemic impact. Nevertheless,
information by institutions. a fuller understanding of shadow banking operations and
their links to financial sector entities, and tighter regu­
lation to provide transparency, a reduction of systemic
risk and the elimination of any improper practices are
(47) Supervision of institutions on a consolidated basis aims necessary for the stability of the financial system.
to protect the interests of depositors and investors of Additional reporting from institutions can establish
institutions and to ensure the stability of the financial some of this but specific new regulation is also necessary.
system. In order to be effective, supervision on a
consolidated basis should therefore be applied to all
banking groups, including those the parent undertakings
of which are not credit institutions or investment firms. (52) Increased transparency regarding the activities of institu­
Member States should provide competent authorities tions, and in particular regarding profits made, taxes paid
with the necessary legal instruments to enable them to and subsidies received, is essential for regaining the trust
exercise such supervision. of citizens of the Union in the financial sector.
Mandatory reporting in that area can therefore be seen
as an important element of the corporate responsibility
of institutions towards stakeholders and society.
(48) In the case of groups with diversified activities where
parent undertakings control at least one subsidiary, the
competent authorities should be able to assess the
(53) Weaknesses in corporate governance in a number of
financial situation of each credit institution or investment
institutions have contributed to excessive and
firm in such a group. The competent authorities should
imprudent risk-taking in the banking sector which has
at least have the means of obtaining from all under­
led to the failure of individual institutions and systemic
takings within a group the information necessary for
problems in Member States and globally. The very
the performance of their function. Cooperation between
general provisions on governance of institutions and
the authorities responsible for the supervision of different
the non-binding nature of a substantial part of the
financial sectors should be established in the case of
corporate governance framework, based essentially on
groups of undertakings carrying out a range of
voluntary codes of conduct, did not sufficiently facilitate
financial activities.
the effective implementation of sound corporate
governance practices by institutions. In some cases, the
absence of effective checks and balances within insti­
tutions resulted in a lack of effective oversight of
(49) Member States should be able to refuse or withdraw a management decision-making, which exacerbated short-
credit institution's authorisation in the case of certain term and excessively risky management strategies. The
group structures considered inappropriate for carrying unclear role of the competent authorities in overseeing
out banking activities, because such structures cannot corporate governance systems in institutions did not
be supervised effectively. In that respect the competent allow for sufficient supervision of the effectiveness of
authorities should have the necessary powers to ensure the internal governance processes.
L 176/344 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(54) In order to address the potentially detrimental effect of of the institution, its main risk exposures and the impli­
poorly designed corporate governance arrangements on cations of the business and the risk strategy. Combining
the sound management of risk, Member States should too high a number of directorships would preclude a
introduce principles and standards to ensure effective member of the management body from spending
oversight by the management body, promote a sound adequate time on the performance of that oversight
risk culture at all levels of credit institutions and role. Therefore, it is necessary to limit the number of
investment firms and enable competent authorities to directorships a member of the management body of an
monitor the adequacy of internal governance arrange­ institution may hold at the same time in different
ments. Those principles and standards should apply entities. However, directorships in organisations which
taking into account the nature, scale and complexity of do not pursue predominantly commercial objectives,
institutions' activities. Member States should be able to such as non-profit-making or charitable organisations,
impose corporate governance principles and standards should not be taken into account for the purposes of
additional to those required by this Directive. applying such a limit.
(55) Different governance structures are used across Member
(59) When appointing members of the management body, the
States. In most cases a unitary or a dual board structure
shareholders or members of an institution should
is used. The definitions used in this Directive are intended
consider whether the candidates have the knowledge,
to embrace all existing structures without advocating any
qualifications and skills necessary to safeguard proper
particular structure. They are purely functional for the
and prudent management of the institution. Those prin­
purpose of setting out rules aimed at a particular
ciples should be exercised and manifested through trans­
outcome irrespective of the national company law
parent and open appointment procedures, with regard to
applicable to an institution in each Member State. The
members of the management body.
definitions should therefore not interfere with the general
allocation of competences in accordance with national
company law.
(60) The lack of monitoring by management bodies of
management decisions is partly due to the phenomenon
(56) A management body should be understood to have of 'groupthink'. This phenomenon is, inter alia, caused by
executive and supervisory functions. The competence a lack of diversity in the composition of management
and structure of management bodies differ across bodies. To facilitate independent opinions and critical
Member States. In Member States where management challenge, management bodies of institutions should
bodies have a one-tier structure, a single board usually therefore be sufficiently diverse as regards age, gender,
performs management and supervisory tasks. In Member geographical provenance and educational and profes­
States with a two-tier system, the supervisory function is sional background to present a variety of views and
performed by a separate supervisory board which has no experiences. Gender balance is of particular importance
executive functions and the executive function is to ensure adequate representation of population. In
performed by a separate management board which is particular, institutions not meeting a threshold for repre­
responsible and accountable for the day-to-day sentation of the underrepresented gender should take
management of the undertaking. Accordingly, separate appropriate action as a matter of priority. Employee
tasks are assigned to the different entities within the representation in management bodies could also, by
management body. adding a key perspective and genuine knowledge of the
internal workings of institutions, be seen as a positive
way of enhancing diversity. More diverse management
bodies should more effectively monitor management
and therefore contribute to improved risk oversight and
(57) The role of non-executive members of the management
resilience of institutions. Therefore, diversity should be
body within an institution should include constructively
one of the criteria for the composition of management
challenging the strategy of the institution and thereby
bodies. Diversity should also be addressed in institutions'
contributing to its development, scrutinising the
recruitment policy more generally. Such a policy should,
performance of management in achieving agreed objec­
for instance, encourage institutions to select candidates
tives, satisfying themselves that financial information is
from shortlists including both genders.
accurate and that financial controls and systems of risk
management are robust and defensible, scrutinising the
design and implementation of the institution's remun­
eration policy and providing objective views on
resources, appointments and standards of conduct.
(61) In order to strengthen legal compliance and corporate
governance, Member States should establish effective
and reliable mechanisms to encourage reporting to
competent authorities of potential or actual breaches of
(58) In order to monitor management actions and decisions national provisions transposing this Directive and of
effectively, the management body of an institution Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Employees reporting
should commit sufficient time to allow it to perform breaches committed within their own institutions
its functions and to be able to understand the business should be fully protected.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/345
(62) Remuneration policies which encourage excessive risk- limits, to allow institutions to apply a notional
taking behaviour can undermine sound and effective discount rate when calculating the value of such
risk management of credit institutions and investment instruments for the purposes of applying the maximum
firms. Members of the G-20 committed themselves to ratio. However, Member States should not be obliged to
implementing the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Prin­ provide for such a facility and should be able to provide
ciples for Sound Compensation Practices and Imple­ for it to apply to a lower maximum percentage of total
menting Standards, which address the potentially detri­ variable remuneration than set out in this Directive. With
mental effect of poorly designed remuneration structures a view to ensuring a harmonised and coherent approach
on the sound management of risk and control of risk- which guarantees a level playing field across the internal
taking behaviour by individuals. This Directive aims to market, EBA should provide appropriate guidance on the
implement international principles and standards at applicable notional discount rate to be used.
Union level by introducing an express obligation for
credit institutions and investment firms to establish and
maintain, for categories of staff whose professional
activities have a material impact on the risk profile of
credit institutions and investment firms, remuneration (66) In order to ensure that the design of remuneration
policies and practices that are consistent with effective policies is integrated in the risk management of the insti­
risk management. tution, the management body should adopt and period­
ically review the remuneration policies in place. The
provisions of this Directive on remuneration should
reflect differences between different types of institutions
in a proportionate manner, taking into account their size,
internal organisation and the nature, scope and
(63) In order to ensure that institutions have in place sound
complexity of their activities. In particular it would not
remuneration policies, it is appropriate to specify clear
be proportionate to require certain types of investment
principles on governance and on the structure of remun­
firms to comply with all of those principles.
eration policies. In particular, remuneration policies
should be aligned with the risk appetite, values and
long-term interests of the credit institution or investment
firm. For that purpose, the assessment of the
performance-based component of remuneration should (67) In order to protect and foster financial stability within
be based on long-term performance and take into the Union and to address any possible avoidance of the
account the current and future risks associated with requirements laid down in this Directive, competent
that performance. authorities should ensure compliance with the principles
and rules on remuneration for institutions on a
consolidated basis, that is at the level of the group,
parent undertakings and subsidiaries, including the
branches and subsidiaries established in third countries.
(64) When considering the policy on variable remuneration a
distinction should be made between fixed remuneration,
which includes payments, proportionate regular pension
contributions, or benefits (where such benefits are
(68) Since poorly designed remuneration policies and
without consideration of any performance criteria), and
incentive schemes are capable of increasing to an
variable remuneration, which includes additional
unacceptable extent the risks to which credit institutions
payments, or benefits depending on performance or, in
and investment firms are exposed, prompt remedial
exceptional circumstances, other contractual elements but
action and, if necessary, appropriate corrective measures
not those which form part of routine employment
should be taken. Consequently, it is appropriate to ensure
packages (such as healthcare, child care facilities or
that competent authorities have the power to impose
proportionate regular pension contributions). Both
qualitative or quantitative measures on the relevant insti­
monetary and non-monetary benefits should be included.
tutions that are designed to address problems that have
been identified in relation to remuneration policies in the
supervisory review.
(65) In any event, in order to avoid excessive risk taking, a
maximum ratio between the fixed and the variable
component of the total remuneration should be set. It (69) The provisions on remuneration should be without
is appropriate to provide for a certain role for the share­ prejudice to the full exercise of fundamental rights guar­
holders, owners or members of institutions in that anteed by Article 153(5) TFEU, general principles of
respect. Member States should be able to set stricter national contract and labour law, Union and national
requirements as regards the relationship between the law regarding shareholders' rights and involvement and
fixed and the variable components of the total remuner­ the general responsibilities of the management bodies of
ation. With a view to encouraging the use of equity or the institution concerned, and the rights, where appli­
debt instruments which are payable under long-term cable, of the social partners to conclude and enforce
deferral arrangements as a component of variable remun­ collective agreements, in accordance with national law
eration, Member States should be able, within certain and customs.
L 176/346 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(70) Own funds requirements for credit risk and market risk not result in the under-estimation of own funds require­
should be based on external credit ratings only to the ments. While own funds requirements for operational
extent necessary. Where credit risk is material, insti­ risk are more difficult to allocate at individual exposure
tutions should therefore generally seek to implement level and it is therefore appropriate to exclude this risk
internal ratings-based approaches or internal models. category from the benchmarking process, competent
However, standardised approaches that rely on external authorities should nevertheless keep abreast of devel­
credit ratings could be used where credit risk is less opments in internal modelling approaches to operational
material, which is typically the case for less sophisticated risk, with the aim of monitoring the range of practices
institutions, for insignificant exposure classes, or in situ­ employed and improving supervisory approaches.
ations where using internal approaches would be overly
burdensome.
(75) The development of relationship-based lending should be
encouraged where information gleaned from a
continuing business relationship with clients is used to
(71) Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC are one of the
get a better quality of due diligence and risk assessment
pillars upon which the overreliance on external credit
than is available purely from standardised information
ratings was built. This Directive should take into
and credit scores.
account the G-20 conclusions and the FSB principles
for Reducing Reliance on external credit ratings. Insti­
tutions should therefore be encouraged to use internal
ratings rather than external credit ratings even for the
purpose of calculating own funds requirements. (76) With respect to the supervision of liquidity, responsibility
should lie with home Member States as soon as detailed
criteria for the liquidity coverage requirement apply. It is
therefore necessary to accomplish the coordination of
supervision in this field in order to introduce supervision
(72) Overreliance on external credit ratings should be reduced by the home Member State by that time. In order to
and the automatic effects deriving from them should be ensure effective supervision, the competent authorities
gradually eliminated. Institutions should therefore be of the home and host Member States should further
required to put in place sound credit-granting criteria cooperate in the field of liquidity.
and credit decision-making processes. Institutions
should be able to use external credit ratings as one of
several factors in that process but they should not rely
solely or mechanistically on them.
(77) Where within a group liquid assets in one institution will
under stress circumstances match liquidity needs of
another member of that group, competent authorities
should be able to exempt an institution from liquidity
(73) The recognition of a credit rating agency as an external coverage requirements and apply those requirements on
credit assessment institution (ECAI) should not increase a consolidated basis instead.
the foreclosure of a market already dominated by three
undertakings. EBA, the Member States' central banks and
the ECB, without making the process easier or less
demanding, should provide for the recognition of more (78) Measures taken on the basis of this Directive should be
credit rating agencies as ECAIs in order to open the without prejudice to measures taken in accordance with
market to other undertakings. Directive 2001/24/EC of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 4 April 2001 on the reorganisation and
winding up of credit institutions ( 1) . Supervisory
measures should not lead to discrimination among
creditors from different Member States.
(74) Given the wide range of approaches adopted by insti­
tutions using internal modelling approaches, it is
important that competent authorities and EBA have a
clear view of the range of values for risk-weighted
assets and own funds requirements that arise for (79) In the light of the financial crisis and the pro-cyclical
similar exposures under such approaches. To that end, mechanisms that contributed to its origin and aggravated
institutions should be required to provide competent its effect, the FSB, the Basel Committee on Banking
authorities with the results of internal models applied Supervision (BCBS), and the G-20 made recommen­
to EBA-developed benchmark portfolios covering a dations to mitigate the pro-cyclical effects of financial
wide range of exposures. Based on the information regulation. In December 2010, the BCBS issued new
received, competent authorities should take appropriate global regulatory standards on bank capital adequacy
steps to ensure that similarities or differences in results (the Basel III rules), including rules requiring the main­
for the same exposure are justifiable in terms of the risks tenance of capital conservation and countercyclical
incurred. More generally, the competent authorities and capital buffers.
EBA should ensure that the choice between an internal
modelling approach and a standardised approach does ( 1 ) OJ L 125, 5.5.2001, p. 15.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/347
(80) It is therefore appropriate to require credit institutions (84) Institutions should address and control all concentration
and relevant investment firms to hold, in addition to risks by means of written policies and procedures. Given
other own fund requirements, a capital conservation the nature of public sector exposures, controlling concen­
buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer to ensure tration risks is more effective than risk weighting those
that they accumulate, during periods of economic exposures, given their size and the difficulties in cali­
growth, a sufficient capital base to absorb losses in brating own funds requirements. The Commission
stressed periods. The countercyclical capital buffer should, at an appropriate time, submit a report to the
should be built up when aggregate growth in credit European Parliament and the Council about any desirable
and other asset classes with a significant impact on the changes to the prudential treatment of concentration risk.
risk profile of such credit institutions and investment
firms are judged to be associated with a build-up of
system-wide risk, and drawn down during stressed
periods.
(85) Member States should be able to require certain insti­
tutions to hold, in addition to a capital conservation
buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer, a systemic
risk buffer in order to prevent and mitigate long-term
non-cyclical systemic or macroprudential risks not
(81) In order to ensure that countercyclical capital buffers
covered by Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, where there
properly reflect the risk to the banking sector of
is a risk of disruption in the financial system with the
excessive credit growth, credit institutions and investment
potential to have serious negative consequences for the
firms should calculate their institution-specific buffers as
financial system and the real economy in a specific
a weighted average of the countercyclical buffer rates that
Member State. The systemic risk buffer rate should
apply in the countries where their credit exposures are
apply to all institutions, or to one or more subsets of
located. Every Member State should therefore designate
those institutions, where the institutions exhibit similar
an authority responsible for the quarterly setting of the
risk profiles in their business activities.
countercyclical buffer rate for exposures located in that
Member State. That buffer rate should take into account
the growth of credit levels and changes to the ratio of
credit to GDP in that Member State, and any other
variables relevant to the risks to the stability of the (86) In order to ensure consistent macroprudential oversight
financial system. across the Union, it is appropriate that the European
Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) develop principles tailored
to the Union economy and be responsible for moni­
toring their application. This Directive should not
prevent the ESRB from taking any actions that it
(82) In order to promote international consistency in setting considers necessary under Regulation (EU)
countercyclical buffer rates, the BCBS has developed a No 1092/2010 of the European Parliament and of the
methodology on the basis of the ratio between credit Council of 24 November 2010 on European Union
and GDP. This should serve as a common starting macroprudential oversight of the financial system and
point for decisions on buffer rates by the relevant establishing a European Systemic Risk Board ( 1 ).
national authorities, but should not give rise to an
automatic buffer setting or bind the designated authority.
The buffer rate should reflect, in a meaningful way, the
credit cycle and the risks due to excess credit growth in
(87) Member States should be able to recognise the systemic
the Member State and should duly take into account
risk buffer rate set by another Member State and apply
specificities of the national economy.
that buffer rate to domestically authorised institutions for
the exposures located in the Member State setting the
buffer rate. The Member State setting the buffer rate
should also be able to ask the ESRB to issue a recom­
mendation as referred to in Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
(83) Restrictions on variable remuneration are an important
No 1092/2010, addressed to one or more Member States
element in ensuring that credit institutions and
which are in a position to recognise the systemic risk
investment firms rebuild their capital levels when
buffer rate recommending that they do so. Such a recom­
operating within the buffer range. Credit institutions
mendation is subject to the "comply or explain" rule set
and investment firms are already subject to the
out in Article 3(2) and Article 17 of that Regulation.
principle that awards and discretionary payments of
variable remuneration to those categories of staff whose
professional activities have a material impact on the risk
profile of the institution have to be sustainable, having
regard to the financial situation of the institution. In (88) It is appropriate that decisions of Member States on
order to ensure that an institution restores its levels of countercyclical buffer rates are coordinated as far as
own funds in a timely manner, it is appropriate to align possible. In that regard, the ESRB, if requested to do so
the award of variable remuneration and discretionary by competent or designated authorities, could facilitate
pension benefits with the profit situation of the insti­ discussions between those authorities about setting
tution during any period in which the combined buffer proposed buffer rates, including relevant variables.
requirement is not met, taking into account the long-
term health of the institution. ( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 1.
L 176/348 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(89) Where a credit institution or investment firm fails to Directive, where the Commission adopts a regulatory
meet in full the combined buffer requirement, it should technical standard which is the same as the draft regu­
be subject to measures designed to ensure that it restores latory technical standard submitted by EBA, the period
its levels of own funds in a timely manner. In order to within which the European Parliament or the Council
conserve capital, it is appropriate to impose propor­ may object to a regulatory technical standard should,
tionate restrictions on discretionary distributions of where appropriate, be further extended by one month.
profits, including dividend payments and payments of Moreover, the Commission should aim to adopt the
variable remuneration. So as to ensure that such insti­ regulatory technical standards in good time to permit
tutions or firms have a credible strategy to restore levels the European Parliament and the Council to exercise
of own funds, they should be required to draw up and full scrutiny, taking account of the volume and
agree with the competent authorities a capital conser­ complexity of regulatory technical standards and the
vation plan that sets out how the restrictions on details of the European Parliament's and the Council's
distributions will be applied and other measures that rules of procedure, calendar of work and composition.
the institution or firm intends to take to ensure
compliance with the full buffer requirements.
(94) The Commission should also be empowered to adopt
implementing technical standards developed by EBA in
(90) Authorities are expected to impose higher own funds
the areas of authorisation of and acquisitions of
requirements on global systemically important insti­
significant holdings in credit institutions, information
tutions (G-SIIs) in order to compensate for the higher
exchange between competent authorities, supervisory
risk that G-SIIs represent for the financial system and
collaboration, specific prudential requirements and
the potential impact of their failure on taxpayers.
disclosure of information by supervisory authorities by
Where an authority imposes the systemic risk buffer
means of implementing acts pursuant to Article 291
and the G-SII buffer is applicable, the higher of the
TFEU and in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
two should apply. Where the systemic risk buffer only
applies to domestic exposures, it should be cumulative
(EU) No 1093/2010.
with the G-SII buffer or the buffer relating to other
systemically important institutions (O-SIIs) which is
applied in accordance with this Directive.
(95) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implemen­
tation of this Directive, implementing powers should be
conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be
(91) Technical standards in financial services should ensure
exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU)
consistent harmonisation and adequate protection of
No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the
depositors, investors and consumers across the Union.
Council of 16 February 2011 on laying down the rules
As a body with highly specialised expertise, it would be
and general principles concerning mechanisms for
efficient and appropriate to entrust EBA with the elab­
control by the Member States of the Commission's
oration of draft regulatory and implementing technical
exercise of implementing powers ( 1) .
standards which do not involve policy choices, for
submission to the Commission. EBA should ensure
efficient administrative and reporting processes when
drafting technical standards.
(96) In order to specify the requirements set out in this
Directive, the power to adopt acts in accordance with
Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the
(92) The Commission should adopt regulatory technical Commission in respect of clarifying the definitions and
standards developed by EBA in the areas of authori­ the terminology used in this Directive, expanding the list
sations and acquisitions of significant holdings in credit of activities subject to mutual recognition and improving
institutions, information exchanges between competent the exchange of information concerning branches of
authorities, the exercise of the freedom of establishment credit institutions. It is of particular importance that
and the freedom to provide services, supervisory collab­ the Commission carry out appropriate consultations
oration, remuneration policies of credit institutions and during its preparatory work, including at expert level.
investment firms and the supervision of mixed financial The Commission, when preparing and drawing up
holding companies by means of delegated acts pursuant delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely
to Article 290 TFEU and in accordance with Articles 10 and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to
to 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. The the European Parliament and to the Council.
Commission and EBA should ensure that those
standards can be applied by all institutions concerned
in a manner that is proportionate to the nature, scale
and complexity of those institutions and their activities.
(97) References to Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC
should be construed as references to this Directive and
to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
(93) Given the detail and number of regulatory technical
standards that are to be adopted pursuant to this ( 1 ) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/349
(98) Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of particular, competent authorities should assess whether
the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary there is a need to apply administrative penalties or
supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings other administrative measures, including prudential
and investment firms in a financial conglomerate ( 1) , charges, the level of which should broadly relate to the
Directive 2007/64/EC of the European Parliament and disparity between the actual liquidity position of an insti­
of the Council of 13 November 2007 on payment tution and the liquidity and stable funding requirements.
services in the internal market ( 2) , Directive 2009/65/EC In making this assessment, competent authorities should
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July have due regard to market conditions. Such adminis­
2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and trative penalties or other administrative measures
administrative provisions relating to undertakings for should apply until detailed legal acts on liquidity and
collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) ( 3) , stable funding requirements are implemented at Union
Directive 2009/110/EC of the European Parliament and level.
of the Council of 16 September 2009 on the taking up,
pursuit and prudential supervision of the business of
electronic money institutions ( 4) and Directive
2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment (103) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of
Fund Managers ( 5 ) refer to provisions of Directives
the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC concerning own funds
requirements which should be set out in this Directive
and on the free movement of such data ( 6) and Regu­
lation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and
and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Consequently,
of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection
references in those Directives to Directives 2006/48/EC
of individuals with regard to the processing of personal
and 2006/49/EC should be construed as references to the
data by the Community institutions and bodies and on
provisions governing own funds requirements in this
Directive and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
the free movement of such data ( 7) , should be fully
applicable to the processing of personal data for the
purposes of this Directive.
(99) In order to allow for technical standards to be developed
so that institutions that are part of a financial
conglomerate apply the appropriate calculation methods (104) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely the intro­
for the determination of required capital on a duction of rules concerning access to the activity of
consolidated basis, Directive 2002/87/EC should be institutions, and the prudential supervision of institu­
amended accordingly. tions, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member
States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and the
effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at
Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in
(100) In order for the internal banking market to operate with accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out
increasing effectiveness and for citizens of the Union to in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In
be afforded adequate levels of transparency, it is accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set
necessary that competent authorities publish, in a out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond
manner which allows for meaningful comparison, what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.
information on the manner in which this Directive is
implemented.
(105) In accordance with the Joint Political Declaration of
Member States and the Commission on explanatory
(101) With respect to the supervision of liquidity, there should documents of 28 September 2011, Member States have
be a period of time within which Member States effect undertaken to accompany, in justified cases, the notifi­
transition towards the regulatory regime under which cation of their transposition measures with one or more
detailed criteria for the liquidity coverage requirement documents explaining the relationship between the
apply. components of a directive and the corresponding parts
of national transposition instruments. With regard to this
Directive, the legislator considers the transmission of
such documents to be justified.
(102) In order to ensure a stable, smooth and progressive tran­
sition by institutions to new liquidity and stable funding
requirements at Union level, competent authorities
should make full use of their supervisory powers under
this Directive and under any applicable national law. In (106) The European Data Protection Supervisor has been
consulted in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation
( 1 ) OJ L 35, 11.2.2003, p. 1.
(EC) No 45/2001 and has adopted an opinion ( 8) .
( 2 ) OJ L 319, 5.12.2007, p. 1
( 3 ) OJ L 302, 17.11.2009, p. 32. ( 6 ) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
( 4 ) OJ L 267, 10.10.2009, p. 7. ( 7 ) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1.
( 5 ) OJ L 174, 1.7.2011, p. 1. ( 8 ) OJ C 175, 19.6.2012, p. 1.
L 176/350 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(107) Directive 2002/87/EC should be amended accordingly (4) in Belgium, the 'Institut de Réescompte et de Garantie/Her­
and Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC should be discontering- en Waarborginstituut';
repealed,
(5) in Denmark, the 'Eksport Kredit Fonden', the 'Eksport
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Kredit Fonden A/S', the 'Danmarks Skibskredit A/S' and
the 'KommuneKredit';
TITLE I
(6) in Germany, the 'Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau', under­
SUBJECT MATTER, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS
takings which are recognised under the 'Wohnungs­
Article 1 gemeinnützigkeitsgesetz' as bodies of State housing
policy and are not mainly engaged in banking transactions,
Subject matter
and undertakings recognised under that law as non-profit
This Directive lays down rules concerning: housing undertakings;
(a) access to the activity of credit institutions and investment (7) in Estonia, the 'hoiu-laenuühistud', as cooperative under­
firms (collectively referred to as "institutions"); takings that are recognised under the 'hoiu-laenuühistu
seadus';
(b) supervisory powers and tools for the prudential supervision
of institutions by competent authorities; (8) in Ireland, credit unions and the friendly societies;
(c) the prudential supervision of institutions by competent (9) in Greece, the 'Ταμείο Παρακαταθηκών και Δανείων' (Tamio
authorities in a manner that is consistent with the rules Parakatathikon kai Danion);
set out in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(10) in Spain, the 'Instituto de Crédito Oficial';
(d) publication requirements for competent authorities in the
field of prudential regulation and supervision of institutions.
(11) in France, the 'Caisse des dépôts et consignations';
Article 2
Scope (12) in Italy, the 'Cassa depositi e prestiti';
1. This Directive shall apply to institutions.
(13) in Latvia, the 'krājaizdevu sabiedrības', undertakings that
2. Article 30 shall apply to local firms. are recognised under the 'krājaizdevu sabiedrību likums'
as cooperative undertakings rendering financial services
solely to their members;
3. Article 31 shall apply to the firms referred to in point
(2)(c) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
(14) in Lithuania, the 'kredito unijos' other than the 'Centrinė
kredito unija';
4. Article 34 and Title VII, Chapter 3 shall apply to financial
holding companies, mixed financial holding companies and
mixed-activity holding companies which have their head (15) in Hungary, the 'MFB Magyar Fejlesztési Bank Zártkörűen
offices in the Union; Működő Részvénytársaság' and the 'Magyar Export-Import
Bank Zártkörűen Működő Részvénytársaság';
5. This Directive shall not apply to the following:
(16) in the Netherlands, the 'Nederlandse Investeringsbank voor
Ontwikkelingslanden NV', the 'NV Noordelijke Ontwikkel­
(1) access to the activity of investment firms in so far as it is ingsmaatschappij', the 'NV Industriebank Limburgs
regulated by Directive 2004/39/EC; Instituut voor Ontwikkeling en Financiering' and the
'Overijsselse Ontwikkelingsmaatschappij NV';
(2) central banks;
(17) in Austria, undertakings recognised as housing associations
in the public interest and the 'Österreichische Kontrollbank
(3) post office giro institutions; AG';
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/351
(18) in Poland, the 'Spółdzielcze Kasy Oszczędnościowo — (7) 'management body' means an institution's body or bodies,
Kredytowe' and the 'Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego'; which are appointed in accordance with national law,
which are empowered to set the institution's strategy,
objectives and overall direction, and which oversee and
(19) in Portugal, the 'Caixas Económicas' existing on 1 January monitor management decision-making, and include the
1986 with the exception of those incorporated as limited persons who effectively direct the business of the insti­
companies and of the 'Caixa Económica Montepio Geral'; tution;
(20) in Slovenia, the 'SID-Slovenska izvozna in razvojna banka, (8) 'management body in its supervisory function' means the
d.d. Ljubljana'; management body acting in its role of overseeing and
monitoring management decision-making;
(21) in Finland, the 'Teollisen yhteistyön rahasto Oy/Fonden för
industriellt samarbete AB', and the 'Finnvera Oyj/Finnvera
(9) 'senior management' means those natural persons who
Abp';
exercise executive functions within an institution and
who are responsible, and accountable to the management
body, for the day-to-day management of the institution;
(22) in Sweden, the 'Svenska Skeppshypotekskassan';
(23) in the United Kingdom, the National Savings Bank, the (10) 'systemic risk' means a risk of disruption in the financial
Commonwealth Development Finance Company Ltd, the system with the potential to have serious negative
Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Ltd, the Scottish Agri­ consequences for the financial system and the real
cultural Securities Corporation Ltd, the Crown Agents for economy;
overseas governments and administrations, credit unions
and municipal banks.
(11) 'model risk' means the potential loss an institution may
incur, as a consequence of decisions that could be prin­
6. The entities referred to in point (1) and points (3) to (23) cipally based on the output of internal models, due to
of paragraph 5 of this Article shall be treated as financial insti­ errors in the development, implementation or use of
tutions for the purposes of Article 34 and Title VII, Chapter 3. such models;
Article 3
(12) 'originator' means originator as defined in point (13) of
Definitions Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
1. For the purposes of this Directive, the following defi­
nitions shall apply:
(13) 'sponsor' means sponsor as defined in point (14) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(1) 'credit institution' means credit institution as defined in
point (1) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(14) 'parent undertaking' means parent undertaking as defined
in point (15) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
(2) 'investment firm' means investment firm as defined in 575/2013;
point (2) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(15) 'subsidiary' means subsidiary as defined in point (16) of
(3) 'institution' means institution as defined in point (3) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(16) 'branch' means branch as defined in point (17) of
(4) 'local firm' means local firm as defined in point (4) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(17) 'ancillary services undertaking' means ancillary services
(5) 'insurance undertaking' means insurance undertaking as
undertaking as defined in point (18) of Article 4(1) of
defined in point (5) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
No 575/2013;
(6) 'reinsurance undertaking' means reinsurance undertaking (18) 'asset management company' means asset management
as defined in point (6) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) company as defined in point (19) of Article 4(1) of Regu­
No 575/2013; lation (EU) No 575/2013;
L 176/352 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(19) 'financial holding company' means financial holding (31) 'central counterparty' means central counterparty as
company as defined in point (20) of Article 4(1) of Regu­ defined in point (34) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
lation (EU) No 575/2013; No 575/2013;
(32) 'participation' means participation as defined in point (35)
(20) 'mixed financial holding company' means mixed financial
of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
holding company as defined in point (21) of Article 4(1)
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(33) 'qualifying holding' means qualifying holding as defined in
point (36) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
(21) 'mixed activity holding company' means mixed activity 575/2013;
holding company as defined in point (22) of Article 4(1)
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(34) 'control' means control as defined in point (37) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(22) 'financial institution' means financial institution as defined
in point (26) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
(35) 'close links' means close links as defined in point (38) of
575/2013;
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(23) 'financial sector entity' means financial sector entity as (36) 'competent authority' means competent authority as
defined in point (27) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) defined in point (40) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013; No 575/2013;
(24) 'parent institution in a Member State' means parent insti­ (37) 'consolidating supervisor' means consolidating supervisor
tution in a Member State as defined in point (28) of as defined in point (41) of Article 4(1) of Regulation
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; (EU) No 575/2013;
(38) 'authorisation' means authorisation as defined in point
(25) 'EU parent institution' means EU parent institution as
(42) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
defined in point (29) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013;
(39) 'home Member State' means home Member State as
defined in point (43) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
(26) 'parent financial holding company in a Member State' No 575/2013;
means parent financial holding company in a Member
State as defined in point (30) of Article 4(1) of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013; (40) 'host Member State' means host Member State as defined
in point (44) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013;
(27) 'EU parent financial holding company' means EU parent
financial holding company as defined in point (31) of
(41) 'ESCB central banks' means ESCB central banks as defined
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
in point (45) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013;
(28) 'parent mixed financial holding company in a Member
State' means parent mixed financial holding company in (42) 'central banks' means central banks as defined in point
a Member State as defined in point (32) of Article 4(1) of (46) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(43) 'consolidated situation' means consolidated situation as
defined in point (47) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
(29) 'EU parent mixed financial holding company' means EU
No 575/2013;
parent mixed financial holding company as defined in
point (33) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013;
(44) 'consolidated basis' means consolidated basis as defined in
point (48) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013;
(30) 'systemically important institution' means an EU parent
institution, an EU parent financial holding company, an
EU parent mixed financial holding company or an insti­ (45) 'sub-consolidated basis' means sub-consolidated basis as
tution the failure or malfunction of which could lead to defined in point (49) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
systemic risk; No 575/2013;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/353
(46) 'financial instrument' means financial instrument as estimates approach referred to in Article 225, the
defined in point (50) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) advanced measurement approaches referred to in
No 575/2013; Article 312(2), the internal models method referred to in
Articles 283 and 363, and the internal assessment
approach referred to in Article 259(3) of Regulation (EU)
(47) 'own funds' means own funds as defined in point (118) of No 575/2013.
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
2. Where this Directive refers to the management body and,
(48) 'operational risk' means operational risk as defined in
pursuant to national law, the managerial and supervisory
point (52) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No
functions of the management body are assigned to different
575/2013;
bodies or different members within one body, the Member
State shall identify the bodies or members of the management
body responsible in accordance with its national law, unless
(49) 'credit risk mitigation' means credit risk mitigation as otherwise specified by this Directive.
defined in point (57) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013;
TITLE II
(50) 'securitisation' means securitisation as defined in point (61)
COMPETENT AUTHORITIES
of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
Article 4
Designation and powers of the competent authorities
(51) 'securitisation position' means securitisation position as
defined in point (62) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) 1. Member States shall designate competent authorities that
No 575/2013; carry out the functions and duties provided for in this Directive
and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. They shall inform the
Commission and EBA thereof, indicating any division of
(52) 'securitisation special purpose entity' means securitisation functions and duties.
special purpose entity as defined in point (66) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
2. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities
monitor the activities of institutions, and where applicable, of
(53) 'discretionary pension benefits' means discretionary
financial holding companies and mixed financial holding
pension benefits as defined in point (73) of Article 4(1)
companies, so as to assess compliance with the requirements
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
of this Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
(54) 'trading book' means trading as defined in point (86) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; 3. Member States shall ensure that appropriate measures are
in place to enable the competent authorities to obtain the
information needed to assess the compliance of institutions
(55) 'regulated market' means regulated market as defined in and, where applicable, of financial holding companies and
point (92) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No mixed financial holding companies, with the requirements
575/2013; referred to in paragraph 2 and to investigate possible
breaches of those requirements.
(56) 'leverage' means leverage as defined in point (93) of
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
4. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities
have the expertise, resources, operational capacity, powers and
independence necessary to carry out the functions relating to
(57) 'risk of excessive leverage' means risk of excessive leverage
prudential supervision, investigations and penalties set out in
as defined in point (94) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU)
this Directive and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
No 575/2013;
(58) 'external credit assessment institution' means external 5. Member States shall require that institutions provide the
credit assessment institution as defined in point (98) of competent authorities of their home Member States with all the
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; information necessary for the assessment of their compliance
with the rules adopted in accordance with this Directive and
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Member States shall also ensure
(59) 'internal approaches' means the internal ratings based that internal control mechanisms and administrative and
approach referred to in Article 143(1), the internal accounting procedures of the institutions permit the checking
models approach referred to in Article 221, the own of their compliance with such rules at all times.
L 176/354 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
6. Member States shall ensure that institutions register all No 1093/2010 and to respond to the warnings and recom­
their transactions and document systems and processes, which mendations issued by the ESRB pursuant to Article 16 of
are subject to this Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010;
in such a manner that the competent authorities are able to
check compliance with this Directive and Regulation (EU) No
575/2013 at all times. (d) the competent authorities cooperate closely with the ESRB;
(e) national mandates conferred on the competent authorities
7. Member States shall ensure that the functions of super­
do not inhibit the performance of their duties as members
vision pursuant to this Directive and to Regulation (EU)
of EBA, of the ESRB, where appropriate, or under this
No 575/2013 and any other functions of the competent auth­
Directive and under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
orities are separate and independent from the functions relating
to resolution. Member States shall inform the Commission and
EBA thereof, indicating any division of duties.
Article 7
Union dimension of supervision
8. Member States shall ensure that where authorities other The competent authorities in each Member State shall, in the
than the competent authorities have the power of resolution, exercise of their general duties, duly consider the potential
those other authorities cooperate closely and consult the impact of their decisions on the stability of the financial
competent authorities with regard to the preparation of system in the other Member States concerned and, in particular,
resolution plans. in emergency situations, based on the information available at
the relevant time.
Article 5
TITLE III
Coordination within Member States
REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCESS TO THE ACTIVITY OF CREDIT
Where Member States have more than one competent authority INSTITUTIONS
for the prudential supervision of credit institutions, investment
CHAPTER 1
firms and financial institutions, Member States shall take the
requisite measures to organise coordination between such auth­ General requirements for access to the activity of credit
orities. institutions
Article 8
Authorisation
Article 6
1. Member States shall require credit institutions to obtain
Cooperation within the European System of Financial
authorisation before commencing their activities. Without
Supervision
prejudice to Articles 10 to 14, they shall lay down the
In the exercise of their duties, the competent authorities shall requirements for such authorisation and notify EBA.
take into account the convergence in respect of supervisory
tools and supervisory practices in the application of the laws,
regulations and administrative requirements adopted pursuant 2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
to this Directive and to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. For specify:
that purpose, Member States shall ensure that:
(a) the information to be provided to the competent authorities
in the application for the authorisation of credit institutions,
(a) the competent authorities, as parties to the European including the programme of operations provided for in
System of Financial Supervision (ESFS), cooperate with Article 10;
trust and full mutual respect, in particular when ensuring
the flow of appropriate and reliable information between
them and other parties to the ESFS, in accordance with
(b) the requirements applicable to shareholders and members
the principle of sincere cooperation set out in Article 4(3)
with qualifying holdings pursuant to Article 14; and
of the Treaty on European Union;
(c) obstacles which may prevent effective exercise of the super­
visory functions of the competent authority, as referred to
(b) the competent authorities participate in the activities of EBA
in Article 14.
and, as appropriate, in the colleges of supervisors;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
(c) the competent authorities make every effort to comply technical standards referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of the
with those guidelines and recommendations issued by first subparagraph in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of
EBA in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/355
3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards 2. Initial capital shall comprise only one or more of the
on standard forms, templates and procedures for the provision items referred to in Article 26(1)(a) to (e) of Regulation (EU)
of the information referred to in point (a) of the first No 575/2013.
subparagraph of paragraph 2.
3. Member States may decide that credit institutions which
do not fulfil the requirement to hold separate own funds and
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
which were in existence on 15 December 1979 may continue
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
to carry out their business. They may exempt such credit insti­
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
tutions from complying with the requirement contained in the
No 1093/2010.
first subparagraph of Article 13(1).
4. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to 4. Member States may grant authorisation to particular
in paragraphs 2 and 3 to the Commission by 31 December categories of credit institutions the initial capital of which is
2015. less than that specified in paragraph 1, subject to the
following conditions:
Article 9
(a) the initial capital is no less than EUR 1 million;
Prohibition against persons or undertakings other than
credit institutions from carrying out the business of
taking deposits or other repayable funds from the public (b) the Member States concerned notify the Commission and
EBA of their reasons for exercising that option.
1. Member States shall prohibit persons or undertakings that
are not credit institutions from carrying out the business of
taking deposits or other repayable funds from the public.
Article 13
Effective direction of the business and place of the head
office
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to the taking of deposits or
other funds repayable by a Member State, or by a Member 1. The competent authorities shall grant authorisation to
State's regional or local authorities, by public international commence the activity of a credit institution only where at
bodies of which one or more Member States are members, or least two persons effectively direct the business of the
to cases expressly covered by national or Union law, provided applicant credit institution.
that those activities are subject to regulations and controls
intended to protect depositors and investors.
They shall refuse such authorisation if the members of the
management body do not meet the requirements referred to
in Article 91(1).
Article 10
Programme of operations and structural organisation
2. Each Member State shall require that:
Member States shall require applications for authorisation to be
accompanied by a programme of operations setting out the
types of business envisaged and the structural organisation of
(a) a credit institution which is a legal person and which, under
the credit institution.
its national law, has a registered office, has its head office in
the same Member State as its registered office;
Article 11
(b) a credit institution other than that referred to in point (a)
Economic needs has its head office in the Member State which granted it
authorisation and in which it actually carries out its
Member States shall not require the application for authori­
business.
sation to be examined in terms of the economic needs of the
market.
Article 14
Shareholders and members
Article 12
1. The competent authorities shall refuse authorisation to
Initial capital
commence the activity of a credit institution unless a credit
1. Without prejudice to other general conditions laid down institution has informed them of the identities of its share­
in national law, the competent authorities shall refuse authori­ holders or members, whether direct or indirect, natural or
sation to commence the activity of a credit institution where a legal persons, that have qualifying holdings and of the
credit institution does not hold separate own funds or where its amounts of those holdings or, where there are no qualifying
initial capital is less than EUR 5 million. holdings, of the 20 largest shareholders or members.
L 176/356 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
In determining whether the criteria for a qualifying holding are six months of receipt of the application or, where the appli­
fulfilled, the voting rights referred to in Articles 9 and 10 of cation is incomplete, within six months of receipt of the
Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the complete information required for the decision.
Council of 15 December 2004 on the harmonisation of trans­
parency requirements in relation to information about issuers
whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated
market ( 1) and the conditions regarding aggregation thereof set
A decision to grant or refuse authorisation shall, in any event,
be taken within 12 months of the receipt of the application.
out in Article 12(4) and (5) of that Directive, shall be taken into
account.
Article 16
Prior consultation of the competent authorities of other
Member States shall not take into account voting rights or
Member States
shares which institutions hold as a result of providing the
underwriting of financial instruments or placing of financial 1. The competent authority shall, before granting authori­
instruments on a firm commitment basis included under sation to a credit institution, consult the competent authorities
point 6 of Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC, of another Member State where the credit institution is:
provided that those rights are not exercised or otherwise used
to intervene in the management of the issuer and are disposed
of within one year of acquisition.
(a) a subsidiary of a credit institution authorised in that other
Member State;
2. The competent authorities shall refuse authorisation to
commence the activity of a credit institution if, taking into (b) a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of a credit institution
account the need to ensure the sound and prudent management authorised in that other Member State;
of a credit institution, they are not satisfied as to the suitability
of the shareholders or members, in particular where the criteria
set out in Article 23(1) are not met. Article 23(2) and (3) and
Article 24 shall apply. (c) controlled by the same natural or legal persons as those
who control a credit institution authorised in that other
Member State.
3. Where close links exist between the credit institution and
other natural or legal persons, competent authorities shall grant
2. The competent authority shall, before granting authori­
authorisation only if those links do not prevent the effective
sation to a credit institution, consult the competent authority
exercise of their supervisory functions.
that is responsible for the supervision of insurance undertakings
or investment firms in the Member State concerned where the
credit institution is:
The competent authorities shall refuse authorisation to
commence the activity of a credit institution where the laws,
regulations or administrative provisions of a third country (a) a subsidiary of an insurance undertaking or investment firm
governing one or more natural or legal persons with which authorised in the Union;
the credit institution has close links, or difficulties involved in
the enforcement of those laws, regulations or administrative
provisions, prevent the effective exercise of their supervisory
(b) a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of an insurance
functions.
undertaking or investment firm authorised in the Union;
The competent authorities shall require credit institutions to (c) controlled by the same natural or legal persons as those
provide them with the information they require to monitor who control an insurance undertaking or investment firm
compliance with the conditions referred to in this paragraph authorised in the Union.
on an ongoing basis.
3. The relevant competent authorities referred to in para­
graphs 1 and 2 shall in particular consult each other when
Article 15
assessing the suitability of the shareholders and the reputation
Refusal of authorisation and experience of members of the management body involved
in the management of another entity of the same group. They
Where a competent authority refuses authorisation to shall exchange any information regarding the suitability of
commence the activity of a credit institution, it shall notify shareholders and the reputation and experience of members
the applicant of the decision and the reasons therefor within of the management body which is of relevance for the
granting of an authorisation and for the ongoing assessment
( 1 ) OJ L 390, 31.12.2004, p. 38. of compliance with operating conditions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/357
Article 17 confusion, the host Member State may, for the purposes of
clarification, require that the name be accompanied by certain
Branches of credit institutions authorised in another
explanatory particulars.
Member State
Host Member States shall not require authorisation or
endowment capital for branches of credit institutions authorised
Article 20
in other Member States. The establishment and supervision of
such branches shall be effected in accordance with Article 35,
Notification of authorisation and withdrawal of
Article 36(1), (2) and (3), Article 37, Articles 40 to 46,
authorisation
Article 49 and Articles 74 and 75.
1. Competent authorities shall notify EBA of every authori­
sation granted under Article 8.
Article 18
Withdrawal of authorisation
2. EBA shall publish on its website, and shall update regu­
larly, a list of the names of all credit institutions that have been
The competent authorities may only withdraw the authorisation
granted authorisation.
granted to a credit institution where such a credit institution:
(a) does not make use of the authorisation within 12 months, 3. The consolidating supervisor shall provide the competent
expressly renounces the authorisation or has ceased to authorities concerned and EBA with all information regarding
engage in business for more than six months, unless the the group of credit institutions in accordance with Article 14(3),
Member State concerned has made provision for the auth­ Article 74(1) and Article 109(2), in particular regarding the
orisation to lapse in such cases; legal and organisational structure of the group and its
governance.
(b) has obtained the authorisation through false statements or
any other irregular means; 4. The list referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall
include the names of credit institutions that do not have the
capital specified in Article 12(1) and shall identify those credit
institutions as such.
(c) no longer fulfils the conditions under which authorisation
was granted;
5. The competent authorities shall notify EBA of each with­
drawal of authorisation together with the reasons for such a
(d) no longer meets the prudential requirements set out in Parts withdrawal.
Three, Four or Six of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or
imposed under Article 104(1)(a) or Article 105 of this
Directive or can no longer be relied on to fulfil its
obligations towards its creditors, and, in particular, no Article 21
longer provides security for the assets entrusted to it by
Waiver for credit institutions permanently affiliated to a
its depositors;
central body
1. The competent authorities may waive the requirements set
out in Articles 10 and 12 and Article 13(1) of this Directive
(e) falls within one of the other cases where national law with regard to a credit institution referred to in Article 10 of
provides for withdrawal of authorisation; or Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 in accordance with the
conditions set out therein.
(f) commits one of the breaches referred to in Article 67(1).
Member States may maintain and make use of existing national
law regarding the application of such a waiver provided that it
does not conflict with this Directive or with Regulation (EU)
Article 19
No 575/2013.
Name of credit institutions
For the purposes of exercising their activities, credit institutions
may, notwithstanding any provisions in the host Member State 2. Where the competent authorities exercise a waiver referred
concerning the use of the words 'bank', 'savings bank' or other to in paragraph 1, Articles 17, 33, 34 and 35, Article 36(1) to
banking names, use throughout the territory of the Union the (3), Articles 39 to 46, Section II of Chapter 2 of Title VII and
same name that they use in the Member State in which their Chapter 4 of Title VII shall apply to the whole as constituted by
head office is situated. In the event of there being any danger of the central body together with its affiliated institutions.
L 176/358 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
CHAPTER 2 by the proposed acquirer, the assessment period shall be
suspended. The suspension shall not exceed 20 working days.
Qualifying holding in a credit institution
Any further requests by the competent authorities for
Article 22 completion or clarification of the information shall be at their
discretion but shall not result in a suspension of the assessment
Notification and assessment of proposed acquisitions period.
1. Member States shall require any natural or legal person or
such persons acting in concert (the "proposed acquirer"), who
have taken a decision either to acquire, directly or indirectly, a
4. The competent authorities may extend the suspension
qualifying holding in a credit institution or to further increase,
referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 up to
directly or indirectly, such a qualifying holding in a credit insti­
30 working days if the proposed acquirer is situated or
tution as a result of which the proportion of the voting rights
regulated in a third country or is a natural or legal person
or of the capital held would reach or exceed 20 %, 30 % or
not subject to supervision under this Directive or under
50 % or so that the credit institution would become its
Directives 2009/65/EC, 2009/138EC, or 2004/39/EC.
subsidiary (the "proposed acquisition"), to notify the
competent authorities of the credit institution in which they
are seeking to acquire or increase a qualifying holding in
writing in advance of the acquisition, indicating the size of
5. If the competent authorities decide to oppose the
the intended holding and the relevant information, as
proposed acquisition, they shall, within two working days of
specified in accordance with Article 23(4). Member States
completion of the assessment, and not exceeding the assessment
shall not be required to apply the 30 % threshold where, in
period, inform the proposed acquirer in writing, providing the
accordance with Article 9(3)(a) of Directive 2004/109/EC,
reasons. Subject to national law, an appropriate statement of the
they apply a threshold of one-third.
reasons for the decision may be made accessible to the public at
the request of the proposed acquirer. This shall not prevent a
Member State from allowing the competent authority to publish
such information in the absence of a request by the proposed
acquirer.
2. The competent authorities shall acknowledge receipt of
notification under paragraph 1 or of further information
under paragraph 3 promptly and in any event within two
working days following receipt in writing to the proposed
acquirer. 6. If the competent authorities do not oppose the proposed
acquisition within the assessment period in writing, it shall be
deemed to be approved.
The competent authorities shall have a maximum of 60
working days as from the date of the written acknowledgement 7. The competent authorities may fix a maximum period for
of receipt of the notification and all documents required by the concluding the proposed acquisition and extend it where appro­
Member State to be attached to the notification on the basis of priate.
the list referred to in Article 23(4) (the "assessment period"), to
carry out the assessment provided for in Article 23(1) (the
"assessment").
8. Member States shall not impose requirements for notifi­
cation to, or approval by, the competent authorities of direct or
indirect acquisitions of voting rights or capital that are more
stringent than those set out in this Directive.
The competent authorities shall inform the proposed acquirer of
the date of the expiry of the assessment period at the time of
acknowledging receipt.
9. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
to establish common procedures, forms and templates for the
consultation process between the relevant competent authorities
as referred to in Article 24.
3. The competent authorities may, during the assessment
period if necessary, and no later than on the 50th working
day of the assessment period, request further information that
is necessary to complete the assessment. Such a request shall be EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
made in writing and shall specify the additional information to the Commission by 31 December 2015.
needed.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the
implementing technical standards referred to in the first
For the period between the date of request for information by subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
the competent authorities and the receipt of a response thereto (EU) No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/359
Article 23 allow their competent authorities to examine the proposed
acquisition in terms of the economic needs of the market.
Assessment criteria
1. In assessing the notification provided for in Article 22(1)
and the information referred to in Article 22(3), the competent
4. Member States shall publish a list specifying the
authorities shall, in order to ensure the sound and prudent
information that is necessary to carry out the assessment and
management of the credit institution in which an acquisition
that must be provided to the competent authorities at the time
is proposed, and having regard to the likely influence of the
of notification referred to in Article 22(1). The information
proposed acquirer on that credit institution, assess the suitability
required shall be proportionate and adapted to the nature of
of the proposed acquirer and the financial soundness of the
the proposed acquirer and the proposed acquisition. Member
proposed acquisition in accordance with the following criteria:
States shall not require information that is not relevant for a
prudential assessment.
(a) the reputation of the proposed acquirer;
5. Notwithstanding Article 22(2), (3) and (4), where two or
more proposals to acquire or increase qualifying holdings in the
(b) the reputation, knowledge, skills and experience, as set out same credit institution have been notified to the competent
in Article 91(1), of any member of the management body authority, the latter shall treat the proposed acquirers in a
and any member of senior management who will direct the non-discriminatory manner.
business of the credit institution as a result of the proposed
acquisition;
Article 24
(c) the financial soundness of the proposed acquirer, in Cooperation between competent authorities
particular in relation to the type of business pursued and
1. The relevant competent authorities shall fully consult each
envisaged in the credit institution in which the acquisition is
other when carrying out the assessment if the proposed acquirer
proposed;
is one of the following:
(d) whether the credit institution will be able to comply and
(a) a credit institution, insurance undertaking, reinsurance
continue to comply with the prudential requirements based
undertaking, investment firm, or a management company
on this Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, and
within the meaning of Article 2(1)(b) of Directive
where applicable, other Union law, in particular Directives
2009/65/EC ("UCITS management company") authorised
2002/87/EC and 2009/110/EC, including whether the
in another Member State or in a sector other than that in
group of which it will become a part has a structure that
which the acquisition is proposed;
makes it possible to exercise effective supervision, effectively
exchange information among the competent authorities and
determine the allocation of responsibilities among the
competent authorities;
(b) the parent undertaking of a credit institution, insurance
undertaking, reinsurance undertaking, investment firm or
UCITS management company authorised in another
(e) whether there are reasonable grounds to suspect that, in Member State or in a sector other than that in which the
connection with the proposed acquisition, money laun­ acquisition is proposed;
dering or terrorist financing within the meaning of
Article 1 of Directive 2005/60/EC of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on
(c) a natural or legal person controlling a credit institution,
the prevention of the use of the financial system for the
purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing ( 1) is
insurance undertaking, reinsurance undertaking, investment
firm or UCITS management company authorised in another
being or has been committed or attempted, or that the
Member State or in a sector other than that in which the
proposed acquisition could increase the risk thereof.
acquisition is proposed.
2. The competent authorities may oppose the proposed
acquisition only if there are reasonable grounds for doing so 2. The competent authorities shall, without undue delay,
on the basis of the criteria set out in paragraph 1 or if the provide each other with any information which is essential or
information provided by the proposed acquirer is incomplete. relevant for the assessment. In that regard, the competent auth­
orities shall communicate to each other upon request all
relevant information and shall communicate on their own
initiative all essential information. A decision by the
3. Member States shall neither impose any prior conditions competent authority that has authorised the credit institution
in respect of the level of holding that must be acquired nor in which the acquisition is proposed shall indicate any views or
reservations expressed by the competent authority responsible
( 1 ) OJ L 309, 25.11.2005, p. 15. for the proposed acquirer.
L 176/360 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 25 Article 27
Notification in the case of a divestiture Criteria for qualifying holdings
Member States shall require any natural or legal person who has In determining whether the criteria for a qualifying holding as
taken a decision to dispose, directly or indirectly, of a qualifying referred to in Articles 22, 25 and 26 are fulfilled, the voting
holding in a credit institution to notify the competent auth­ rights referred to in Articles 9, 10 and 11 of Directive
orities in writing in advance of the divestiture, indicating the 2004/109/EC and the conditions regarding aggregation
size of the holding concerned. Such a person shall also notify thereof set out in Article 12(4) and (5) of that Directive, shall
the competent authorities if it has taken a decision to reduce its be taken into account.
qualifying holding so that the proportion of the voting rights or
of the capital held would fall below 20 %, 30 % or 50 % or so
that the credit institution would cease to be its subsidiary.
Member States shall not be required to apply the 30 % In determining whether the criteria for a qualifying holding as
threshold where, in accordance with Article 9(3)(a) of referred to in Article 26 are fulfilled, Member States shall not
Directive 2004/109/EC, they apply a threshold of one-third. take into account voting rights or shares which institutions may
hold as a result of providing the underwriting of financial
instruments or placing of financial instruments on a firm
commitment basis included under point 6 of Section A of
Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC, provided that those rights
Article 26
are not exercised or otherwise used to intervene in the
Information obligations and penalties management of the issuer and are disposed of within one
year of acquisition.
1. Credit institutions shall, on becoming aware of any
acquisitions or disposals of holdings in their capital that cause
holdings to exceed or fall below one of the thresholds referred
to in Article 22(1) and Article 25, inform the competent auth­
TITLE IV
orities of those acquisitions or disposals.
INITIAL CAPITAL OF INVESTMENT FIRMS
Article 28
Credit institutions admitted to trading on a regulated market Initial capital of investment firms
shall, at least annually, inform the competent authorities of the
1. The initial capital of investment firms shall comprise only
names of shareholders and members possessing qualifying
one or more of the items referred to in points (a) to (e) of
holdings and the sizes of such holdings as shown, for
Article 26(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
example, by the information received at the annual general
meetings of shareholders and members or as a result of
compliance with the regulations relating to companies
admitted to trading on a regulated market.
2. All investment firms other than those referred to in
Article 29 shall have initial capital of EUR 730 000.
2. Member States shall require that, where the influence
exercised by the persons referred to in Article 22(1) is likely
Article 29
to operate to the detriment of the prudent and sound
management of the institution, the competent authorities shall Initial capital of particular types of investment firms
take appropriate measures to put an end to that situation. Such
1. An investment firm that does not deal in any financial
measures may consist in injunctions, penalties, subject to
instruments for its own account or underwrite issues of
Articles 65 to 72, against members of the management body
financial instruments on a firm commitment basis, but which
and managers, or the suspension of the exercise of the voting
holds client money or securities and which offers one or more
rights attached to the shares held by the shareholders or
of the following services, shall have initial capital of
members of the credit institution in question.
EUR 125 000:
Similar measures shall apply to natural or legal persons who fail (a) the reception and transmission of investors' orders for
to comply with the obligation to provide prior information as financial instruments;
set out in Article 22(1) and subject to Articles 65 to 72.
(b) the execution of investors' orders for financial instruments;
If a holding is acquired despite opposition by the competent
authorities, Member States shall, regardless of any other penalty
to be adopted, provide either for exercise of the corresponding
voting rights to be suspended, or for the nullity of votes cast or (c) the management of individual portfolios of investments in
for the possibility of their annulment. financial instruments.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/361
2. The competent authorities may allow an investment firm (c) a combination of initial capital and professional indemnity
which executes investors' orders for financial instruments to insurance in a form resulting in a level of coverage
hold such instruments for its own account if the following equivalent to that referred to in points (a) or (b).
conditions are met:
The Commission shall periodically review the amounts referred
(a) such positions arise only as a result of the firm's failure to to in the first subparagraph.
match investors' orders precisely;
2. If a firm referred to in point (2)(c) of Article 4(1) of
(b) the total market value of all such positions is subject to a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 is also registered under
ceiling of 15 % of the firm's initial capital; Directive 2002/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 9 December 2002 on insurance mediation ( 1) , it
shall comply with Article 4(3) of that Directive and have
(c) the firm meets the requirements set out in Articles 92 to 95 coverage in one of the following forms:
and Part Four of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(a) initial capital of EUR 25 000;
(d) such positions are incidental and provisional in nature and
strictly limited to the time required to carry out the trans­
action in question.
(b) professional indemnity insurance covering the whole
territory of the Union or some other comparable
guarantee against liability arising from professional negli­
3. Member States may reduce the amount referred to in gence, representing at least EUR 500 000 applying to each
paragraph 1 to EUR 50 000 where a firm is not authorised to claim and in aggregate EUR 750 000 per annum for all
hold client money or securities, to deal for its own account, or claims;
to underwrite issues on a firm commitment basis.
(c) a combination of initial capital and professional indemnity
4. The holding of non-trading-book positions in financial insurance in a form resulting in a level of coverage
instruments in order to invest own funds shall not be equivalent to that referred to in points (a) or (b).
considered as dealing for its own account in relation to the
services set out in paragraph 1 or for the purposes of
paragraph 3.
Article 32
Grandfathering provision
Article 30
1. By way of derogation from Article 28(2), Article 29(1)
Initial capital of local firms and (3) and Article 30, Member States may continue authorising
investment firms and firms covered by Article 30 which were in
Local firms shall have initial capital of EUR 50 000 insofar as existence on or before 31 December 1995, the own funds of
they benefit from the freedom of establishment or to provide which are less than the initial capital levels specified for them in
services specified in Articles 31 and 32 of Directive Article 28(2), Article 29(1) or (3) or Article 30.
2004/39/EC.
The own funds of such investment firms or firms shall not fall
Article 31 below the highest reference level calculated after 23 March
1993. That reference level shall be the average daily level of
Coverage for firms not authorised to hold client money or
own funds calculated over a six-month period preceding the
securities
date of calculation. It shall be calculated every six months in
1. Coverage for the firms referred to in point (2)(c) of respect of the corresponding preceding period.
Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 shall take one
of the following forms:
2. If control of an investment firm or a firm covered by
paragraph 1 is taken by a natural or legal person other than
(a) initial capital of EUR 50 000; the person who controlled it on or before 31 December 1995,
the own funds of that investment firm or firm shall attain at
least the level specified for them in Article 28(2), Article 29(1)
(b) professional indemnity insurance covering the whole or (3), or Article 30, except in the case of a first transfer by
territory of the Union or some other comparable inheritance made after 31 December 1995, subject to the
guarantee against liability arising from professional negli­ approval of the competent authorities and for a period of not
gence, representing at least EUR 1 000 000 applying to more than 10 years from the date of that transfer.
each claim and in aggregate EUR 1 500 000 per annum
for all claims; ( 1 ) OJ L 9, 15.1.2003, p. 3.
L 176/362 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. In the event of a merger of two or more investment firms (b) the activities in question are actually carried out within the
or firms covered by Article 30, the own funds of the firm territory of the same Member State;
resulting from the merger need not attain the level specified
in Article 28(2), Article 29(1) or (3) or Article 30. Nevertheless,
during any period when the level specified in Article 28(2),
Article 29(1) or (3) or Article 30 has not been attained, the (c) the parent undertaking or undertakings holds 90 % or more
own funds of the firm resulting from the merger shall not fall of the voting rights attaching to shares in the capital of the
below the total own funds of the merged firms at the time of financial institution;
the merger.
(d) the parent undertaking or undertakings satisfies the
competent authorities regarding the prudent management
4. The own funds of investment firms and firms covered by
of the financial institution and has declared, with the
Article 30 shall not fall below the levels specified in
consent of the relevant home Member State competent
Article 28(2), Article 29(1) or(3) or Article 30 and in para­
authorities, that they jointly and severally guarantee the
graphs 1 and 3 of this Article.
commitments entered into by the financial institution;
5. Where competent authorities consider it necessary, in
(e) the financial institution is effectively included, for the
order to ensure the solvency of such investment firms and
activities in question in particular, in the consolidated super­
firms, that the requirements set out in paragraph 4 are met,
vision of the parent undertaking, or of each of the parent
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply.
undertakings, in accordance with Title VII, Chapter 3 of this
Directive and Part One, Title II, Chapter 2 of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013, in particular for the purposes of the
own funds requirements set out in Article 92 of that Regu­
TITLE V
lation, for the control of large exposures provided for in
Part Four of that Regulation and for the purposes of the
PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE FREEDOM OF
limitation of holdings provided for in Articles 89 and 90 of
ESTABLISHMENT AND THE FREEDOM TO PROVIDE SERVICES
that Regulation.
CHAPTER 1
General Principles
The competent authorities of the home Member State shall
Article 33
check compliance with the conditions set out in the first
Credit institutions subparagraph and shall supply the financial institution with a
certificate of compliance which shall form part of the notifi­
Member States shall provide that the activities listed in Annex I
cation referred to in Articles 35 and 39.
may be carried out within their territories, in accordance with
Article 35, Article 36(1), (2) and (3), Article 39(1) and (2) and
Articles 40 to 46 either by establishing a branch or by
providing services, by any credit institution authorised and 2. If a financial institution as referred to in the first
supervised by the competent authorities of another Member subparagraph of paragraph 1 ceases to fulfil any of the
State, provided that such activities are covered by the authori­ conditions imposed, the competent authorities of the home
sation. Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the
host Member State and the activities carried out by that
financial institution in the host Member State shall become
subject to the law of the host Member State.
Article 34
Financial institutions
1. Member States shall provide that the activities listed in 3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply accordingly to subsidiaries
Annex I may be carried out within their territories, in of a financial institution as referred to in the first subparagraph
accordance with Article 35, Article 36(1), (2) and (3), of paragraph 1.
Article 39(1) and (2) and Articles 40 to 46, either by estab­
lishing a branch or by providing services, by any financial insti­
tution from another Member State, whether a subsidiary of a
CHAPTER 2
credit institution or the jointly owned subsidiary of two or
more credit institutions, the memorandum and Articles of The right of establishment of credit institutions
association of which permit the carrying out of those activities
and which fulfils each of the following conditions: Article 35
Notification requirement and interaction between
competent authorities
(a) the parent undertaking or undertakings are authorised as 1. A credit institution wishing to establish a branch within
credit institutions in the Member State by the law of the territory of another Member State shall notify the
which the financial institution is governed; competent authorities of its home Member State.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/363
2. Member States shall require every credit institution accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
wishing to establish a branch in another Member State to No 1093/2010.
provide all the following information when effecting the notifi­
cation referred to in paragraph 1:
6. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
to establish standard forms, templates and procedures for such
(a) the Member State within the territory of which it plans to
notification.
establish a branch;
(b) a programme of operations setting out, inter alia, the types Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
of business envisaged and the structural organisation of the menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
branch; in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(c) the address in the host Member State from which
documents may be obtained;
7. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to
in paragraphs 5 and 6 to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
(d) the names of those to be responsible for the management of
the branch.
Article 36
3. Unless the competent authorities of the home Member Commencement of activities
State have reason to doubt the adequacy of the administrative
1. Before the branch of a credit institution commences its
structure or the financial situation of the credit institution,
activities the competent authorities of the host Member State
taking into account the activities envisaged, they shall, within
shall, within two months of receiving the information referred
three months of receipt of the information referred to in
to in Article 35, prepare for the supervision of the credit insti­
paragraph 2, communicate that information to the competent
tution in accordance with Chapter 4 and if necessary indicate
authorities of the host Member State and shall inform the credit
the conditions under which, in the interests of the general good,
institution accordingly.
those activities shall be carried out in the host Member State.
The home Member State's competent authorities shall also
communicate the amount and composition of own funds and 2. On receipt of a communication from the competent auth­
the sum of the own funds requirements under Article 92 of orities of the host Member State, or in the event of the expiry of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the credit institution. the period provided for in paragraph 1 without receipt of any
communication from the latter, the branch may be established
and may commence its activities.
By way of derogation from the second subparagraph, in the
case referred to in Article 34 the home Member State's
competent authorities shall communicate the amount and
composition of own funds of the financial institution and the 3. In the event of a change in any of the information
total risk exposure amounts calculated in accordance with communicated pursuant to points (b), (c) or (d) of Article 35(2),
Article 92(3) and (4) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the a credit institution shall give written notice of the change in
credit institution which is its parent undertaking. question to the competent authorities of the home and host
Member States at least one month before making the change in
order to enable the competent authorities of the home Member
4. Where the competent authorities of the home Member State to take a decision following a notification under Article 35,
State refuse to communicate the information referred to in and the competent authorities of the host Member State to take
paragraph 2 to the competent authorities of the host Member a decision setting out the conditions for the change pursuant to
State, they shall give reasons for their refusal to the credit paragraph 1 of this Article.
institution concerned within three months of receipt of all the
information.
4. Branches which have commenced their activities, in
accordance with the provisions in force in their host Member
That refusal or a failure to reply shall be subject to a right to
States, before 1 January 1993, shall be presumed to have been
apply to the courts in the home Member State.
subject to the procedures set out in Article 35 and in para­
graphs 1 and 2 of this Article. They shall be governed, from
1 January 1993, by paragraph 3 of this Article and by Articles
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
33 and 52 and Chapter 4.
specify the information to be notified in accordance with this
Article.
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory specify the information to be notified in accordance with this
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in Article.
L 176/364 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory 5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in to establish standard forms, templates and procedures for such
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) notification.
No 1093/2010.
6. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
to establish standard forms, templates and procedures for such
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
notification.
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the
implementing technical standards referred to in the first
subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
6. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to
(EU) No 1093/2010.
in paragraphs 4 and 5 to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
7. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to
in paragraphs 5 and 6 to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
CHAPTER 4
Article 37 Powers of the competent authorities of the host Member State
Information about refusals Article 40
Member States shall inform the Commission and EBA of the Reporting requirements
number and type of cases in which there has been a refusal
The competent authorities of the host Member States may
pursuant to Article 35 and Article 36(3).
require that all credit institutions having branches within their
territories shall report to them periodically on their activities in
Article 38 those host Member States.
Aggregation of branches
Any number of places of business set up in the same Member
Such reports shall only be required for information or statistical
State by a credit institution with headquarters in another
purposes, for the application of Article 51(1), or for supervisory
Member State shall be regarded as a single branch.
purposes in accordance with this Chapter. They shall be subject
to professional secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those
CHAPTER 3 referred to in Article 53(1).
Exercise of the freedom to provide services
Article 39
The competent authorities of the host Member States may in
Notification procedure particular require information from the credit institutions
referred to in the first subparagraph in order to allow those
1. Any credit institution wishing to exercise the freedom to
competent authorities to assess whether a branch is significant
provide services by carrying out its activities within the territory
in accordance with Article 51(1).
of another Member State for the first time shall notify the
competent authorities of the home Member State of the
activities on the list in Annex I which it intends to carry out.
Article 41
2. The competent authorities of the home Member State
Measures taken by the competent authorities of the home
shall, within one month of receipt of the notification
Member State in relation to activities carried out in the
provided for in paragraph 1, send that notification to the
host Member State
competent authorities of the host Member State.
1. Where the competent authorities of the host Member
State on the basis of information received from the
3. This Article shall not affect rights acquired by credit insti­
competent authorities of the home Member State under
tutions providing services before 1 January 1993.
Article 50 ascertain that a credit institution having a branch
or providing services within its territory fulfils one of the
following conditions in relation to the activities carried out in
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
that host Member State, they shall inform the competent auth­
specify the information to be notified in accordance with this
orities of the home Member State:
Article.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in (a) the credit institution does not comply with the national
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) provisions transposing this Directive or with Regulation
No 1093/2010. (EU) No 575/2013;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/365
(b) there is a material risk that the credit institution will not the home Member State take reorganisation measures under
comply with the national provisions transposing this Article 3 of Directive 2001/24/EC.
Directive or with Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
4. The competent authorities of the host Member State shall
The competent authorities of the home Member State shall, terminate precautionary measures where they consider those
without delay, take all appropriate measures to ensure that measures to have become obsolete under Article 41, unless
the credit institution concerned remedies its non-compliance they cease to have effect in accordance with paragraph 3 of
or takes measures to avert the risk of non-compliance. The this Article.
competent authorities of the home Member State shall
communicate those measures to the competent authorities of
the host Member State without delay.
5. The Commission, EBA and the competent authorities of
the other Member States concerned shall be informed of
precautionary measures taken under paragraph 1 without
2. Where the competent authorities of the host Member undue delay.
State consider that the competent authorities of the home
Member State have not fulfilled their obligations or will not
fulfil their obligations pursuant to the second subparagraph of
Where the competent authorities of the home Member State or
paragraph 1, they may refer the matter to EBA and request its
of any other affected Member State object to measures taken by
assistance in accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU)
the competent authorities of the host Member State, they may
No 1093/2010. Where EBA acts in accordance with that
refer the matter to EBA and request its assistance in accordance
Article, it shall take any decision under Article 19(3) of that
with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Where EBA
Regulation within 24 hours. EBA may also assist the competent
acts in accordance with that Article, it shall take any decision
authorities in reaching an agreement on its own initiative in
under Article 19(3) of that Regulation within 24 hours. EBA
accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) of
may also assist the competent authorities in reaching an
that Regulation.
agreement on its own initiative in accordance with the second
subparagraph of Article 19(1) of that Regulation.
Article 42
Reasons and communication Article 44
Any measure taken pursuant to Article 41(1), or Article 43 or Powers of host Member States
44 involving penalties or restrictions on the exercise of the
Host Member States may, notwithstanding Articles 40 and 41,
freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment
exercise the powers conferred on them under this Directive to
shall be properly reasoned and communicated to the credit
take appropriate measures to prevent or to punish breaches
institution concerned.
committed within their territories of the rules they have
adopted pursuant to this Directive or in the interests of the
general good. This shall include the possibility of preventing
Article 43 offending credit institutions from initiating further transactions
within their territories.
Precautionary measures
1. Before following the procedure set out in Article 41, the
competent authorities of the host Member State may, in Article 45
emergency situations, pending measures by the competent auth­
orities of the home Member State or reorganisation measures Measures following withdrawal of authorisation
referred to in Article 3 of Directive 2001/24/EC, take any
In the event of withdrawal of authorisation, the competent
precautionary measures necessary to protect against financial
authorities of the home Member State shall inform the
instability that would seriously threaten the collective interests
competent authorities of the host Member State without
of depositors, investors and clients in the host Member State.
delay. The competent authorities of the host Member State
shall take appropriate measures to prevent the credit institution
concerned from initiating further transactions within its
2. Any precautionary measures under paragraph 1 shall be territory and to safeguard the interests of depositors.
proportionate to their purpose to protect against financial insta­
bility that would seriously threaten collective interests of
depositors, investors and clients in the host Member State.
Article 46
Such precautionary measures may include a suspension of
payment. They shall not result in a preference for the Advertising
creditors of the credit institution in the host Member State
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent credit institutions with
over creditors in other Member States.
head offices in other Member States from advertising their
services through all available means of communication in the
host Member State, subject to any rules governing the form and
3. Any precautionary measure under paragraph 1 shall cease the content of such advertising adopted in the interests of the
to have effect when the administrative or judicial authorities of general good.
L 176/366 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
TITLE VI holding companies situated in the Union which have as
subsidiaries institutions or financial institutions situated in
RELATIONS WITH THIRD COUNTRIES
a third country, or holding participation therein;
Article 47
Notification in relation to third-country branches and
conditions of access for credit institutions with such (b) the supervisory authorities of third countries are able to
branches obtain the information necessary for the supervision of
parent undertakings the head offices of which are situated
1. Member States shall not apply to branches of credit insti­
within their territories and which have as subsidiaries insti­
tutions having their head office in a third country, when
tutions or financial institutions situated in one or more
commencing or continuing to carry out their business,
Member States or holding participation therein; and
provisions which result in more favourable treatment than
that accorded to branches of credit institutions having their
head office in the Union.
(c) EBA is able to obtain from the competent authorities of the
Member States the information received from national auth­
2. The competent authorities shall notify the Commission, orities of third countries in accordance with Article 35 of
EBA and the European Banking Committee established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
Commission Decision 2004/10/EC ( 1 ) of all authorisations for
branches granted to credit institutions having their head office
in a third country.
3. Without prejudice to Article 218 TFEU, the Commission
shall, with the assistance of the European Banking Committee,
examine the outcome of the negotiations referred to in
3. The Union may, through agreements concluded with one paragraph 1 and the resulting situation.
or more third countries, agree to apply provisions which accord
to branches of a credit institution having its head office in a
third country identical treatment throughout the territory of the
Union. 4. EBA shall assist the Commission for the purposes of this
Article in accordance with Article 33 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
Article 48
Cooperation with supervisory authorities of third
countries regarding supervision on a consolidated basis TITLE VII
1. The Commission may submit proposals to the Council, PRUDENTIAL SUPERVISION
either at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative,
CHAPTER 1
for the negotiation of agreements with one or more third
countries regarding the means of exercising supervision on a Principles of prudential supervision
consolidated basis over the following:
S e c t i o n I
C o m p e t e n c e a n d d u t i e s o f h o m e a n d h o s t
M e m b e r S t a t e s
(a) institutions the parent undertakings of which have their
head offices in a third country; Article 49
Competence of the competent authorities of the home and
host Member States
(b) institutions situated in third countries the parent under­
1. The prudential supervision of an institution, including that
takings of which, whether institutions, financial holding
of the activities it carries out in accordance with Articles 33 and
companies or mixed financial holding companies, have
34, shall be the responsibility of the competent authorities of
their head offices in the Union.
the home Member State, without prejudice to those provisions
of this Directive which give responsibility to the competent
authorities of the host Member State.
2. The agreements referred to in paragraph 1 shall, in
particular, seek to ensure that:
2. Paragraph 1 shall not prevent supervision on a
consolidated basis.
(a) the competent authorities of the Member States are able to
obtain the information necessary for the supervision, on the
basis of their consolidated financial situations, of institu­
tions, financial holding companies and mixed financial 3. Measures taken by the host Member State shall not allow
discriminatory or restrictive treatment on the basis that an
( 1 ) OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 36. institution is authorised in another Member State.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/367
Article 50 information, has been rejected or has not been acted upon
within a reasonable time. Without prejudice to Article 258
Collaboration concerning supervision
TFEU, EBA may, in those situations, act in accordance with
1. The competent authorities of the Member States the powers conferred on it under Article 19 of Regulation
concerned shall collaborate closely in order to supervise the (EU) No 1093/2010. EBA may also assist the competent auth­
activities of institutions operating, in particular through a orities in reaching an agreement on the exchange of
branch, in one or more Member States other than that in information under this Article on its own initiative in
which their head offices are situated. They shall supply one accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) of
another with all information concerning the management and that Regulation.
ownership of such institutions that is likely to facilitate their
supervision and the examination of the conditions for their
authorisation, and all information likely to facilitate the moni­
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
toring of institutions, in particular with regard to liquidity,
specify the information referred to in this Article.
solvency, deposit guarantee, the limiting of large exposures,
other factors that may influence the systemic risk posed by
the institution, administrative and accounting procedures and
internal control mechanisms. Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
2. The competent authorities of the home Member State No 1093/2010.
shall provide the competent authorities of host Member States
immediately with any information and findings pertaining to
liquidity supervision in accordance with Part Six of Regulation
7. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
(EU) No 575/2013 and Title VII, Chapter 3 of this Directive of
to establish standard forms, templates and procedures for the
the activities performed by the institution through its branches,
information sharing requirements which are likely to facilitate
to the extent that such information and findings are relevant to
the monitoring of institutions.
the protection of depositors or investors in the host Member
State.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
3. The competent authorities of the home Member State menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
shall inform the competent authorities of all host Member in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
States immediately where liquidity stress occurs or can No 1093/2010.
reasonably be expected to occur. That information shall also
include details about the planning and implementation of a
recovery plan and about any prudential supervision measures
taken in that context. 8. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to
in paragraphs 6 and 7 to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
4. The competent authorities of the home Member State
shall communicate and explain upon request to the Article 51
competent authorities of the host Member State how
information and findings provided by the latter have been Significant branches
taken into account. Where, following communication of
1. The competent authorities of a host Member State may
information and findings, the competent authorities of the
make a request to the consolidating supervisor, where
host Member State maintain that no appropriate measures
Article 112(1) applies, or to the competent authorities of the
have been taken by the competent authorities of the home
home Member State for a branch of an institution other than an
Member State, the competent authorities of the host Member
investment firm subject to Article 95 of Regulation (EU)
State may, after informing the competent authorities of the
No 575/2013 to be considered as significant.
home Member State and EBA, take appropriate measures to
prevent further breaches in order to protect the interests of
depositors, investors and others to whom services are
provided or to protect the stability of the financial system. That request shall provide reasons for considering the branch to
be significant with particular regard to the following:
Where the competent authorities of the home Member State
disagree with the measures to be taken by the competent auth­
(a) whether the market share of the branch in terms of deposits
orities of the host Member State, they may refer the matter to
exceeds 2 % in the host Member State;
EBA and request its assistance in accordance with Article 19 of
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Where EBA acts in accordance
with that Article, it shall take any decision within one month.
(b) the likely impact of a suspension or closure of the oper­
ations of the institution on systemic liquidity and the
5. The competent authorities may refer to EBA situations payment, clearing and settlement systems in the host
where a request for collaboration, in particular to exchange Member State;
L 176/368 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) the size and the importance of the branch in terms of Where the competent authorities of the home Member State
number of clients within the context of the banking or have not consulted the competent authorities of the host
financial system of the host Member State. Member State, or where, following such consultation, the
competent authorities of the host Member State maintain that
operational steps required by Article 86(11) are not adequate,
the competent authorities of the host Member State may refer
The competent authorities of the home and host Member
the matter to EBA and request its assistance in accordance with
States, and, where Article 112(1) applies, the consolidating
Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
supervisor, shall do everything within their power to reach a
joint decision on the designation of a branch as being
significant.
3. Where Article 116 does not apply, the competent auth­
orities supervising an institution with significant branches in
If no joint decision is reached within two months of receipt of a other Member States shall establish and chair a college of super­
request under the first subparagraph, the competent authorities visors to facilitate the cooperation under paragraph 2 of this
of the host Member State shall take their own decision within a Article and under Article 50. The establishment and functioning
further period of two months on whether the branch is of the college shall be based on written arrangements to be
significant. In taking their decision, the competent authorities determined, after consulting the competent authorities
of the host Member State shall take into account any views and concerned, by the competent authority of the home Member
reservations of the consolidating supervisor or the competent State. The competent authority of the home Member State shall
authorities of the home Member State. decide which competent authorities participate in a meeting or
in an activity of the college.
The decisions referred to in the third and fourth subparagraphs
shall be set out in a document containing full reasons, shall be
The decision of the competent authority of the home Member
transmitted to the competent authorities concerned and shall be
State shall take account of the relevance of the supervisory
recognised as determinative and applied by the competent auth­
activity to be planned or coordinated for those authorities, in
orities in the Member States concerned.
particular the potential impact on the stability of the financial
system in the Member States concerned referred to in Article 7
and the obligations referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article.
The designation of a branch as being significant shall not affect
the rights and responsibilities of the competent authorities
under this Directive.
The competent authority of the home Member State shall keep
all members of the college fully informed, in advance, of the
organisation of such meetings, the main issues to be discussed
2. The competent authorities of the home Member State
and the activities to be considered. The competent authority of
shall communicate to the competent authorities of a host
the home Member State shall also keep all the members of the
Member State where a significant branch is established the
college fully informed, in a timely manner, of the actions taken
information referred to in Article 117(1)(c) and (d) and carry
in those meetings or the measures carried out.
out the tasks referred to in Article 112(1)(c) in cooperation with
the competent authorities of the host Member State.
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards in
If a competent authority of a home Member State becomes order to specify general conditions for the functioning of
aware of an emergency situation as referred to in Article 114(1), colleges of supervisors.
it shall alert without delay the authorities referred to in
Article 58(4) and Article 59(1).
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
The competent authorities of the home Member State shall
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
communicate to the competent authorities of the host
No 1093/2010.
Member States where significant branches are established the
results of the risk assessments of institutions with such
branches referred to in Article 97 and, where applicable,
Article 113(2). They shall also communicate decisions under
5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
Articles 104 and 105 in so far as those assessments and
in order to determine the operational functioning of colleges of
decisions are relevant to those branches.
supervisors.
The competent authorities of the home Member States shall
consult the competent authorities of the host Member States Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the
where significant branches are established about operational implementing technical standards referred to in the first
steps required by Article 86(11), where relevant for liquidity subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
risks in the host Member State's currency. (EU) No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/369
6. EBA shall submit the draft technical standards referred to or experts acting on behalf of the competent authorities shall be
in paragraphs 4 and 5 to the Commission by 31 December bound by the obligation of professional secrecy.
2014.
Confidential information which such persons, auditors or
experts receive in the course of their duties may be disclosed
Article 52 only in summary or aggregate form, such that individual credit
institutions cannot be identified, without prejudice to cases
On-the-spot checking and inspection of branches
covered by criminal law.
established in another Member State
1. Host Member States shall provide that, where an insti­
tution authorised in another Member State carries out its
Nevertheless, where a credit institution has been declared
activities through a branch, the competent authorities of the
bankrupt or is being compulsorily wound up, confidential
home Member State may, after having informed the
information which does not concern third parties involved in
competent authorities of the host Member State, carry out
attempts to rescue that credit institution may be disclosed in
themselves or through the intermediary of persons they
civil or commercial proceedings.
appoint for that purpose on-the-spot checks of the information
referred to in Article 50 and inspections of such branches.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not prevent the competent authorities
from exchanging information with each other or transmitting
information to the ESRB, EBA, or the European Supervisory
2. The competent authorities of the home Member State may
Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority)
also, for the purposes of the inspection of branches, have
("ESMA") established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of
recourse to one of the other procedures set out in Article 118.
the European Parliament and of the Council ( 1) in accordance
with this Directive, with Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, with
other Directives applicable to credit institutions, with Article 15
of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010, with Articles 31, 35 and 36
3. The competent authorities of the host Member State shall
of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 and with Articles 31 and 36
have the power to carry out, on a case-by-case basis, on-the-
of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010. That information shall be
spot checks and inspections of the activities carried out by
subject to paragraph 1.
branches of institutions on their territory and require
information from a branch about its activities and for super­
visory purposes, where they consider it relevant for reasons of
stability of the financial system in the host Member State. 3. Paragraph 1 shall not prevent the competent authorities
Before carrying out such checks and inspections, the from publishing the outcome of stress tests carried out in
competent authorities of the host Member State shall consult accordance with Article 100 of this Directive or Article 32 of
the competent authorities of the home Member State. After Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 or from transmitting the
such checks and inspections, the competent authorities of the outcome of stress tests to EBA for the purpose of the
host Member State shall communicate to the competent auth­ publication by EBA of the results of Union-wide stress tests.
orities of the home Member State the information obtained and
findings that are relevant for the risk assessment of the insti­
tution or the stability of the financial system in the host Article 54
Member State. The competent authorities of the home
Member State shall duly take into account that information Use of confidential information
and those findings in determining their supervisory examination
Competent authorities receiving confidential information under
programme referred to in Article 99, also having regard to the
Article 53 shall use it only in the course of their duties and only
stability of the financial system in the host Member State.
for any of the following purposes:
(a) to check that the conditions governing access to the activity
4. The on-the-spot checks and inspections of branches shall
of credit institutions are met and to facilitate monitoring, on
be conducted in accordance with the law of the Member State
a non-consolidated or consolidated basis, of the conduct of
where the check or inspection is carried out.
such activity, especially with regard to the monitoring of
liquidity, solvency, large exposures, and administrative and
accounting procedures and internal control mechanisms;
S e c t i o n I I
E x c h a n g e o f i n f o r m a t i o n a n d p r o f e s s i o n a l (b) to impose penalties;
s e c r e c y
Article 53
(c) in an appeal against a decision of the competent authority
Professional secrecy
including court proceedings pursuant to Article 72;
1. Member States shall provide that all persons working for
or who have worked for the competent authorities and auditors ( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84.
L 176/370 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) in court proceedings initiated pursuant to special provisions Article 53(1) and Article 54 shall not preclude the disclosure to
provided for in Union law adopted in the field of credit bodies which administer deposit-guarantee schemes and
institutions. investor compensation schemes of information necessary for
the exercise of their functions.
Article 55
Cooperation agreements The information received shall in any event be subject to profes­
sional secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those referred
Member States and EBA, in accordance with Article 33 of to in Article 53(1).
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, may conclude cooperation
agreements, providing for exchanges of information, with the
supervisory authorities of third countries or with authorities or
bodies of third countries in accordance with Article 56 and Article 57
Article 57(1) of this Directive only if the information
Exchange of information with oversight bodies
disclosed is subject to a guarantee that professional secrecy
requirements at least equivalent to those referred to in 1. Notwithstanding Articles 53, 54 and 55, Member States
Article 53(1) of this Directive are complied with. Such may authorise exchange of information between the competent
exchange of information shall be for the purpose of performing authorities and the authorities responsible for overseeing:
the supervisory tasks of those authorities or bodies.
(a) the bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of
Where the information originates in another Member State, it
institutions and in other similar procedures;
shall only be disclosed with the express agreement of the auth­
orities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for
the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.
(b) contractual or institutional protection schemes as referred to
in Article 113(7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
Article 56
Exchange of information between authorities
(c) persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the
Article 53(1) and Article 54 shall not preclude the exchange of
accounts of institutions, insurance undertakings and
information between competent authorities within a Member
financial institutions.
State, between competent authorities in different Member
States or between competent authorities and the following, in
the discharge of their supervisory functions:
2. In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, Member States
shall require fulfilment of at least the following conditions:
(a) authorities entrusted with the public duty of supervising
other financial sector entities and the authorities responsible
for the supervision of financial markets;
(a) that the information is exchanged for the purpose of
performing the tasks referred to in paragraph 1;
(b) authorities or bodies charged with responsibility for main­
taining the stability of the financial system in Member States
through the use of macroprudential rules; (b) that the information received is subject to professional
secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those referred
to in Article 53(1);
(c) reorganisation bodies or authorities aiming at protecting the
stability of the financial system;
(c) where the information originates in another Member State,
that it is not disclosed without the express agreement of the
(d) contractual or institutional protection schemes as referred to competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where
in Article 113(7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those auth­
orities gave their agreement.
(e) bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of insti­
tutions and in other similar procedures;
3. Notwithstanding Articles 53, 54 and 55, Member States
may, with the aim of strengthening the stability and integrity of
the financial system, authorise the exchange of information
(f) persons responsible for carrying out statutory audits of the between competent authorities and the authorities or bodies
accounts of institutions, insurance undertakings and responsible under law for the detection and investigation of
financial institutions. breaches of company law.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/371
In such cases Member States shall require fulfilment of at least (c) where appropriate, other public authorities responsible for
the following conditions: overseeing payment systems;
(a) that the information is exchanged for the purpose of (d) the ESRB, the European Supervisory Authority (European
detecting and investigating breaches of company law; Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority) ("EIOPA"),
established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the
European Parliament and of the Council ( 1 ) and ESMA,
where that information is relevant for the exercise of their
(b) that the information received is subject to professional
tasks under Regulations (EU) No 1092/2010, (EU)
secrecy requirements at least equivalent to those referred
No 1094/2010 or (EU) No 1095/2010.
to in Article 53(1);
(c) where the information originates in another Member State, Member States shall take the appropriate measures to remove
that it is not disclosed without the express agreement of the obstacles preventing competent authorities from transmitting
competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where information in accordance with the first subparagraph.
appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those auth­
orities gave their agreement.
2. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the authorities or
bodies referred to in paragraph 1 from communicating to the
4. Where the authorities or bodies referred to in paragraph 1 competent authorities such information as the competent auth­
perform their task of detection or investigation with the aid, in orities may need for the purposes of Article 54.
view of their specific competence, of persons appointed for that
purpose and not employed in the public sector, a Member State
may extend the possibility of exchanging information provided
3. Information received in accordance with paragraphs 1 and
for in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 to such persons
2 shall be subject to professional secrecy requirements at least
under the conditions specified in the second subparagraph of
equivalent to those referred to in Article 53(1).
paragraph 3.
4. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure
5. The competent authorities shall communicate to EBA the
that, in an emergency situation as referred to in Article 114(1),
names of the authorities or bodies which may receive
the competent authorities communicate, without delay,
information pursuant to this Article.
information to the ESCB central banks where that information
is relevant for the exercise of their statutory tasks, including the
conduct of monetary policy and related liquidity provision, the
6. In order to implement paragraph 4, the authorities or oversight of payments, clearing and settlement systems, and the
bodies referred to in paragraph 3 shall communicate to the safeguarding of the stability of the financial system, and to the
competent authorities which have disclosed the information, ESRB where such information is relevant for the exercise of its
the names and precise responsibilities of the persons to statutory tasks.
whom it is to be sent.
Article 59
Article 58
Transmission of information to other entities
Transmission of information concerning monetary, deposit
protection, systemic and payment aspects 1. Notwithstanding Article 53(1) and Article 54, Member
States may, by virtue of provisions laid down in national law,
1. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent a competent authorise the disclosure of certain information to other
authority from transmitting information to the following for departments of their central government administrations
the purposes of their tasks: responsible for law on the supervision of institutions,
financial institutions and insurance undertakings and to
inspectors acting on behalf of those departments.
(a) ESCB central banks and other bodies with a similar function
in their capacity as monetary authorities when the
information is relevant for the exercise of their respective
However, such disclosures may be made only where necessary
statutory tasks, including the conduct of monetary policy
for reasons of prudential supervision, and prevention and
and related liquidity provision, oversight of payments,
resolution of failing institutions. Without prejudice to
clearing and settlement systems and the safeguarding of
paragraph 2 of this Article, persons having access to the
stability of the financial system;
information shall be subject to professional secrecy
requirements at least equivalent to those referred to in
Article 53(1).
(b) contractual or institutional protection schemes as referred to
in Article 113(7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; ( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
L 176/372 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
In an emergency situation as referred to in Article 114(1), referred to in Articles 53, 54 and 55 to a clearing house or
Member States shall allow competent authorities to disclose other similar body recognised under national law for the
information which is relevant to the departments referred to provision of clearing or settlement services for one of their
in the first subparagraph of this paragraph in all Member national markets if they consider that it is necessary to
States concerned. communicate the information in order to ensure the proper
functioning of those bodies in relation to defaults or potential
defaults by market participants. The information received shall
2. Member States may authorise the disclosure of certain be subject to professional secrecy requirements at least
information relating to the prudential supervision of institutions equivalent to those referred to in Article 53(1).
to parliamentary enquiry committees in their Member State,
courts of auditors in their Member State and other entities in
charge of enquiries in their Member State, under the following
conditions: 2. Member States shall, however, ensure that information
received under Article 53(2) shall not be disclosed in the
circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 without the express
consent of the competent authorities, which have disclosed it.
(a) that the entities have a precise mandate under national law
to investigate or scrutinise the actions of authorities
responsible for the supervision of institutions or for laws
on such supervision;
Article 62
Processing of personal data
(b) that the information is strictly necessary for fulfilling the
The processing of personal data for the purposes of this
mandate referred to in point (a);
Directive shall be carried out in accordance with Directive
95/46/EC and, where relevant, with Regulation (EC)
No 45/2001.
(c) the persons with access to the information are subject to
professional secrecy requirements under national law at least
equivalent to those referred to in Article 53(1);
S e c t i o n I I I
D u t y o f p e r s o n s r e s p o n s i b l e f o r t h e l e g a l
(d) where the information originates in another Member State
c o n t r o l o f a n n u a l a n d c o n s o l i d a t e d
that it is not disclosed without the express agreement of the
a c c o u n t s
competent authorities which have disclosed it and, solely for
the purposes for which those authorities gave their Article 63
agreement.
Duty of persons responsible for the legal control of annual
and consolidated accounts
To the extent that the disclosure of information relating to 1. Member States shall provide that any person authorised in
prudential supervision involves processing of personal data, accordance with Directive 2006/43/EC of the European
any processing by the entities referred to in the first Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory
subparagraph shall comply with the applicable national laws audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts ( 1) and
transposing Directive 95/46/EC. performing in an institution the tasks described in Article 51
of Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 on the annual
accounts of certain types of companies ( 2) , Article 37 of Council
Article 60 Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983 on consolidated
accounts ( 3 ) Article 73 of Directive 2009/65/EC, or any other
Disclosure of information obtained by on-the-spot checks statutory task, shall at least have a duty to report promptly to
and inspections the competent authorities any fact or decision concerning that
institution of which that person has become aware while
Member States shall ensure that information received under
carrying out that task, which is liable to:
Article 52(3), Article 53(2) and Article 56 and information
obtained by means of an on-the-spot check or inspection
referred to in Article 52(1) and (2) shall not be disclosed
under Article 59 save with the express consent of the
(a) constitute a material breach of the laws, regulations or
competent authorities which disclosed the information or of
administrative provisions which lay down the conditions
the competent authorities of the Member State in which such
governing authorisation or which specifically govern
an on-the-spot check or inspection was carried out.
pursuit of the activities of institutions;
Article 61
(b) affect the ongoing functioning of the institution;
Disclosure of information concerning clearing and
settlement services
( 1 ) OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87.
1. Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the competent auth­ ( 2 ) OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11.
orities of a Member State from communicating the information ( 3 ) OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/373
(c) lead to refusal to certify the accounts or to the expression of States to provide for and impose criminal penalties, Member
reservations. States shall lay down rules on administrative penalties and
other administrative measures in respect of breaches of
national provisions transposing this Directive and of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 and shall take all measures necessary to
Member States shall provide at least that a person referred to in
ensure that they are implemented. Where Member States
the first subparagraph shall also have a duty to report any fact
decide not to lay down rules for administrative penalties for
or decision of which that person becomes aware in the course
breaches which are subject to national criminal law they shall
of carrying out a task as described in the first subparagraph in
communicate to the Commission the relevant criminal law
an undertaking having close links resulting from a control rela­
provisions. The administrative penalties and other administrative
tionship with the institution within which he is carrying out
measures shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
that task.
2. The disclosure in good faith to the competent authorities, 2. Member States shall ensure that where the obligations
by persons authorised within the meaning of Directive referred to in paragraph 1 apply to institutions, financial
2006/43/EC, of any fact or decision referred to in paragraph holding companies and mixed financial holding companies in
1 shall not constitute a breach of any restriction on disclosure the event of a breach of national provisions transposing this
of information imposed by contract or by any legislative, regu­ Directive or of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, penalties may be
latory or administrative provision and shall not involve such applied, subject to the conditions laid down in national law, to
persons in any liability. Such disclosure shall be made simulta­ the members of the management body and to other natural
neously to the management body of the institution unless there persons who under national law are responsible for the breach.
are compelling reasons not to do so.
3. Competent authorities shall have all information gathering
S e c t i o n I V and investigatory powers that are necessary for the exercise of
their functions. Without prejudice to other relevant provisions
S u p e r v i s o r y p o w e r s , p o w e r s t o i m p o s e
laid down in this Directive and in Regulation (EU) No
p e n a l t i e s a n d r i g h t o f a p p e a l
575/2013 those powers shall include:
Article 64
Supervisory powers and powers to impose penalties
(a) the power to require the following natural or legal persons
1. Competent authorities shall be given all supervisory
to provide all information that is necessary in order to carry
powers to intervene in the activity of institutions that are
out the tasks of the competent authorities, including
necessary for the exercise of their function, including in
information to be provided at recurring intervals and in
particular the right to withdraw an authorisation in accordance
specified formats for supervisory and related statistical
with Article 18, the powers required in accordance with
purposes:
Article 102 and the powers set out in Articles 104 and 105.
2. Competent authorities shall exercise their supervisory (i) institutions established in the Member State concerned;
powers and their powers to impose penalties in accordance
with this Directive and with national law, in any of the
following ways:
(ii) financial holding companies established in the Member
State concerned;
(a) directly;
(iii) mixed financial holding companies established in the
Member State concerned;
(b) in collaboration with other authorities;
(iv) mixed-activity holding companies established in the
(c) under their responsibility by delegation to such authorities;
Member State concerned;
(d) by application to the competent judicial authorities.
(v) persons belonging to the entities referred to in points (i)
to (iv);
Article 65
Administrative penalties and other administrative measures
(vi) third parties to whom the entities referred to in points
1. Without prejudice to the supervisory powers of competent (i) to (iv) have outsourced operational functions or
authorities referred to in Article 64 and the right of Member activities;
L 176/374 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the power to conduct all necessary investigations of any authorities of the credit institution in which they are seeking
person referred to in points (a)(i) to (vi) established or to acquire or increase a qualifying holding, during the
located in the Member State concerned where necessary to assessment period, or against the opposition of the
carry out the tasks of the competent authorities, including: competent authorities, in breach of Article 22(1);
(i) the right to require the submission of documents; (d) disposing, directly or indirectly, of a qualifying holding in a
credit institution or reducing a qualifying holding so that
the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital held
would fall below the thresholds referred to in Article 25 or
(ii) to examine the books and records of the persons
so that the credit institution would cease to be a subsidiary,
referred to in points(a)(i) to (vi) and take copies or
without notifying in writing the competent authorities.
extracts from such books and records;
2. Member States shall ensure that in the cases referred to in
(iii) to obtain written or oral explanations from any person
paragraph 1, the administrative penalties and other adminis­
referred to in points (a) (i) to (vi) or their representatives
trative measures that can be applied include at least the
or staff; and
following:
(iv) to interview any other person who consents to be inter­
(a) a public statement which identifies the natural person, insti­
viewed for the purpose of collecting information
tution, financial holding company or mixed financial
relating to the subject matter of an investigation;
holding company responsible and the nature of the breach;
(c) the power, subject to other conditions set out in Union law,
(b) an order requiring the natural or legal person responsible to
to conduct all necessary inspections at the business premises
cease the conduct and to desist from a repetition of that
of the legal persons referred to in points (a)(i) to (vi) and
conduct;
any other undertaking included in consolidated supervision
where a competent authority is the consolidating supervisor,
subject to the prior notification of the competent authorities
concerned. If an inspection requires authorisation by a (c) in the case of a legal person, administrative pecuniary
judicial authority under national law, such authorisation penalties of up to 10 % of the total annual net turnover
shall be applied for. including the gross income consisting of interest receivable
and similar income, income from shares and other variable
or fixed-yield securities, and commissions or fees receivable
in accordance with Article 316 of Regulation (EU)
Article 66
No 575/2013 of the undertaking in the preceding
Administrative penalties and other administrative measures business year;
for breaches of authorisation requirements and
requirements for acquisitions of qualifying holdings
1. Member States shall ensure that their laws, regulations and (d) in the case of a natural person, administrative pecuniary
administrative provisions provide for administrative penalties penalties of up to EUR 5 000 000, or in the Member
and other administrative measures at least in respect of: States whose currency is not the euro, the corresponding
value in the national currency on 17 July 2013;
(a) carrying out the business of taking deposits or other
repayable funds from the public without being a credit (e) administrative pecuniary penalties of up to twice the
institution in breach of Article 9; amount of the benefit derived from the breach where that
benefit can be determined;
(b) commencing activities as a credit institution without
obtaining authorisation in breach of Article 9; (f) suspension of the voting rights of the shareholder or share­
holders held responsible for the breaches referred to in
paragraph 1.
(c) acquiring, directly or indirectly, a qualifying holding in a
credit institution or further increasing, directly or indirectly,
such a qualifying holding in a credit institution as a result of Where the undertaking referred to in point (c) of the first
which the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital subparagraph is a subsidiary of a parent undertaking, the
held would reach or exceed the thresholds referred to in relevant gross income shall be the gross income resulting
Article 22(1) or so that the credit institution would become from the consolidated account of the ultimate parent under­
its subsidiary, without notifying in writing the competent taking in the preceding business year.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/375
Article 67 (j) an institution repeatedly or persistently fails to hold liquid
assets in breach of Article 412 of Regulation (EU)
Other provisions
No 575/2013;
1. This Article shall apply at least in any of the following
circumstances:
(k) an institution incurs an exposure in excess of the limits set
out in Article 395 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(a) an institution has obtained an authorisation through false
statements or any other irregular means;
(l) an institution is exposed to the credit risk of a securiti­
sation position without satisfying the conditions set out in
(b) an institution, on becoming aware of any acquisitions or
Article 405 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
disposals of holdings in their capital that cause holdings to
exceed or fall below one of the thresholds referred to in
Article 22(1) or Article 25, fails to inform the competent
authorities of those acquisitions or disposals in breach of (m) an institution fails to disclose information or provides
the first subparagraph of Article 26(1); incomplete or inaccurate information in breach of
Article 431(1), (2) and (3) or Article 451(1) of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013;
(c) an institution listed on a regulated market as referred to in
the list to be published by ESMA in accordance with
Article 47 of Directive 2004/39/EC does not, at least (n) an institution makes payments to holders of instruments
annually, inform the competent authorities of the names included in the own funds of the institution in breach of
of shareholders and members possessing qualifying Article 141 of this Directive or in cases where Articles 28,
holdings and the sizes of such holdings in breach of the 51 or 63 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 prohibit such
second subparagraph of Article 26(1) of this Directive; payments to holders of instruments included in own funds;
(d) an institution fails to have in place governance (o) an institution is found liable for a serious breach of the
arrangements required by the competent authorities in national provisions adopted pursuant to Directive
accordance with the national provisions transposing 2005/60/EC;
Article 74;
(p) an institution allows one or more persons not complying
(e) an institution fails to report information or provides
with Article 91 to become or remain a member of the
incomplete or inaccurate information on compliance with
management body.
the obligation to meet own funds requirements set out in
Article 92 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to the
competent authorities in breach of Article 99(1) of that
Regulation; 2. Member States shall ensure that in the cases referred to in
paragraph 1, the administrative penalties and other adminis­
trative measures that can be applied include at least the
(f) an institution fails to report or provides incomplete or following:
inaccurate information to the competent authorities in
relation to the data referred to in Article 101 of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013; (a) a public statement which identifies the natural person, insti­
tution, financial holding company or mixed financial
holding company responsible and the nature of the breach;
(g) an institution fails to report information or provides
incomplete or inaccurate information about a large
exposure to the competent authorities in breach of
(b) an order requiring the natural or legal person responsible to
Article 394(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
cease the conduct and to desist from a repetition of that
conduct;
(h) an institution fails to report information or provides
incomplete or inaccurate information on liquidity to the
competent authorities in breach of Article 415(1) and (2) (c) in the case of an institution, withdrawal of the authorisation
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; of the institution in accordance with Article 18;
(i) an institution fails to report information or provides (d) subject to Article 65(2), a temporary ban against a member
incomplete or inaccurate information on the leverage of the institution's management body or any other natural
ratio to the competent authorities in breach of person, who is held responsible, from exercising functions
Article 430(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; in institutions;
L 176/376 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(e) in the case of a legal person, administrative pecuniary (c) where publication would cause, insofar as it can be deter­
penalties of up to 10 % of the total annual net turnover mined, disproportionate damage to the institutions or
including the gross income consisting of interest receivable natural persons involved.
and similar income, income from shares and other variable
or fixed-yield securities, and commissions or fees receivable
in accordance with Article 316 of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 of the undertaking in the preceding Alternatively, where the circumstances referred to in the first
business year; subparagraph are likely to cease within a reasonable period of
time, publication under paragraph 1 may be postponed for such
a period of time.
(f) in the case of a natural person, administrative pecuniary
penalties of up to EUR 5 000 000, or in the Member
States whose currency is not the euro, the corresponding
3. Competent authorities shall ensure that information
value in the national currency on 17 July 2013;
published under paragraphs 1 or 2 remains on their official
website at least five years. Personal data shall be retained on
the official website of the competent authority only for the
period necessary, in accordance with the applicable data
(g) administrative pecuniary penalties of up to twice the
protection rules.
amount of the profits gained or losses avoided because of
the breach where those can be determined.
4. By 18 July 2015 EBA shall submit a report to the
Where an undertaking referred to in point (e) of the first Commission on the publication of penalties by Member States
subparagraph is a subsidiary of a parent undertaking, the on an anonymous basis as provided for under paragraph 2, in
relevant gross income shall be the gross income resulting particular where there have been significant divergences
from the consolidated account of the ultimate parent under­ between Member States in this respect. In addition, EBA shall
taking in the preceding business year. submit a report to the Commission on any significant diver­
gences in the duration of publication of penalties under national
law.
Article 68
Publication of administrative penalties
Article 69
1. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities
Exchange of information on penalties and maintenance of a
publish on their official website at least any administrative
central database by EBA
penalties against which there is no appeal and which are
imposed for breach of the national provisions transposing this 1. Subject to the professional secrecy requirements referred
Directive or of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, including to in Article 53(1), the competent authorities shall inform EBA
information on the type and nature of the breach and the of all administrative penalties, including all permanent prohib­
identity of the natural or legal person on whom the penalty itions, imposed under Articles 65, 66 and 67 including any
is imposed, without undue delay after that person is informed appeal in relation thereto and the outcome thereof. EBA shall
of those penalties. maintain a central database of administrative penalties
communicated to it solely for the purposes of exchanging
information between competent authorities. That database
shall be accessible to competent authorities only and it shall
Where Member States permit publication of penalties against be updated on the basis of the information provided by
which there is an appeal, competent authorities shall, without competent authorities.
undue delay, also publish on their official website information
on the appeal status and outcome thereof.
2. Where a competent authority assesses good repute for the
purposes of Article 13(1), Article 16(3), Article 91(1) and
2. Competent authorities shall publish the penalties on an
Article 121, it shall consult the EBA database of administrative
anonymous basis, in a manner in accordance with national law,
penalties. In the event of a change of status or a successful
in any of the following circumstances:
appeal, EBA shall delete or update relevant entries in the
database on request by the competent authorities.
(a) where the penalty is imposed on a natural person and,
following an obligatory prior assessment, publication of
personal data is found to be disproportionate; 3. The competent authorities shall check, in accordance with
national law, the existence of a relevant conviction in the
criminal record of the person concerned. For those purposes,
information shall be exchanged in accordance with Decision
(b) where publication would jeopardise the stability of financial 2009/316/JHA and Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA as
markets or an ongoing criminal investigation; implemented in national law.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/377
4. EBA shall maintain a website with links to each 2. The mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1 shall include
competent authority's publication of administrative penalties at least:
under Article 68 and shall show the time period for which
each Member State publishes administrative penalties.
(a) specific procedures for the receipt of reports on breaches
and their follow-up;
Article 70
(b) appropriate protection for employees of institutions who
Effective application of penalties and exercise of powers to report breaches committed within the institution against
impose penalties by competent authorities retaliation, discrimination or other types of unfair
treatment at a minimum;
Member States shall ensure that when determining the type of
administrative penalties or other administrative measures and
the level of administrative pecuniary penalties, the competent
(c) protection of personal data concerning both the person who
authorities shall take into account all relevant circumstances,
reports the breaches and the natural person who is allegedly
including, where appropriate:
responsible for a breach, in accordance with Directive
95/46/EC;
(a) the gravity and the duration of the breach;
(d) clear rules that ensure that confidentiality is guaranteed in
all cases in relation to the person who reports the breaches
committed within the institution, unless disclosure is
required by national law in the context of further investi­
(b) the degree of responsibility of the natural or legal person
gations or subsequent judicial proceedings.
responsible for the breach;
3. Member States shall require institutions to have in place
(c) the financial strength of the natural or legal person appropriate procedures for their employees to report breaches
responsible for the breach, as indicated, for example, by internally through a specific, independent and autonomous
the total turnover of a legal person or the annual income channel.
of a natural person;
Such a channel may also be provided through arrangements
provided for by social partners. The same protection as
(d) the importance of profits gained or losses avoided by the referred to in points (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 2 shall apply.
natural or legal person responsible for the breach, insofar as
they can be determined;
Article 72
Right of appeal
(e) the losses for third parties caused by the breach, insofar as Member States shall ensure that decisions and measures taken
they can be determined; pursuant to laws, regulations and administrative provisions
adopted in accordance with this Directive or to Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 are subject to a right of appeal. Member
States shall also ensure that failure to take a decision within six
(f) the level of cooperation of the natural or legal person months of submission of an application for authorisation which
responsible for the breach with the competent authority; contains all the information required under the national
provisions transposing this Directive, is subject to a right of
appeal.
(g) previous breaches by the natural or legal person responsible
for the breach;
CHAPTER 2
Review Processes
S e c t i o n I
(h) any potential systemic consequences of the breach.
I n t e r n a l c a p i t a l a d e q u a c y a s s e s s m e n t
p r o c e s s
Article 71 Article 73
Reporting of breaches Internal Capital
1. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities Institutions shall have in place sound, effective and compre­
establish effective and reliable mechanisms to encourage hensive strategies and processes to assess and maintain on an
reporting of potential or actual breaches of national provisions ongoing basis the amounts, types and distribution of internal
transposing this Directive and of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 capital that they consider adequate to cover the nature and level
to competent authorities. of the risks to which they are or might be exposed.
L 176/378 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Those strategies and processes shall be subject to regular In accordance with Article 25 of Regulation (EU)
internal review to ensure that they remain comprehensive and No 1093/2010, EBA shall be entitled to participate in and
proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the contribute to the development and coordination of effective
activities of the institution concerned. and consistent recovery and resolution plans.
S e c t i o n I I
In that regard EBA shall be informed of, and shall be entitled to
A r r a n g e m e n t s , p r o c e s s e s a n d m e c h a n i s m s participate in, meetings relating to the development and coor­
o f i n s t i t u t i o n s dination of recovery and resolution plans. Where any such
meetings or activities take place, EBA shall be fully informed
S u b - S e c t i o n 1 in advance of the organisation of such meetings, of the main
G e n e r a l p r i n c i p l e s
issues to be discussed and of the activities to be considered.
Article 74
Internal governance and recovery and resolution plans
Article 75
1. Institutions shall have robust governance arrangements,
which include a clear organisational structure with well- Oversight of remuneration policies
defined, transparent and consistent lines of responsibility,
1. Competent authorities shall collect the information
effective processes to identify, manage, monitor and report
disclosed in accordance with the criteria for disclosure estab­
the risks they are or might be exposed to, adequate internal
lished in points (g), (h) and (i) of Article 450(1) of Regulation
control mechanisms, including sound administration and
(EU) No 575/2013 and shall use it to benchmark remuneration
accounting procedures, and remuneration policies and
trends and practices. The competent authorities shall provide
practices that are consistent with and promote sound and
EBA with that information.
effective risk management.
2. The arrangements, processes and mechanisms referred to 2. EBA shall issue guidelines on sound remuneration policies
in paragraph 1 shall be comprehensive and proportionate to the which comply with the principles set out in Articles 92 to 95.
nature, scale and complexity of the risks inherent in the The guidelines shall take into account the principles on sound
business model and the institution's activities. The technical remuneration policies set out in Commission Recommendation
criteria established in Articles 76 to 95 shall be taken into 2009/384/EC of 30 April 2009 on remuneration policies in the
account. financial services sector ( 1 ).
3. EBA shall issue guidelines on the arrangements, processes
and mechanisms referred to in paragraph 1, in accordance with ESMA shall cooperate closely with EBA to develop guidelines
paragraph 2. on remuneration policies for categories of staff involved in the
provision of investment services and activities within the
meaning of point 2 of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC.
4. Competent authorities shall ensure that recovery plans for
the restoration of an institution's financial situation following a
significant deterioration, and resolution plans are put in place. EBA shall use the information received from the competent
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, the authorities in accordance with paragraph 1 to benchmark
requirements for an institution to draw up, maintain and remuneration trends and practices at Union level.
update recovery plans and for the resolution authority, after
consulting the competent authority, to prepare resolution
plans, may be reduced if, after consulting the national macro­
prudential authority, competent authorities consider that the
failure of a specific institution due, inter alia, to its size, to its 3. Competent authorities shall collect information on the
business model, to its interconnectedness to other institutions, number of natural persons per institution that are remunerated
or to the financial system in general, will not have a negative EUR 1 million or more per financial year, in pay brackets of
effect on financial markets, on other institutions or on funding EUR 1 million, including their job responsibilities, the business
conditions. area involved and the main elements of salary, bonus, long-term
award and pension contribution. That information shall be
forwarded to EBA, which shall publish it on an aggregate
home Member State basis in a common reporting format.
Institutions shall cooperate closely with resolution authorities EBA may elaborate guidelines to facilitate the implementation
and shall provide them with all information necessary for the of this paragraph and ensure the consistency of the information
preparation and drafting of viable resolution plans setting out collected.
options for the orderly resolution of the institutions in the case
of failure, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. ( 1 ) OJ L 120, 15.5.2009, p. 22.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/379
S u b - S e c t i o n 2 4. Member States shall ensure that the management body in
its supervisory function and, where a risk committee has been
T e c h n i c a l c r i t e r i a c o n c e r n i n g t h e
established, the risk committee have adequate access to
o r g a n i s a t i o n a n d t r e a t m e n t o f r i s k s
information on the risk situation of the institution and, if
Article 76 necessary and appropriate, to the risk management function
and to external expert advice.
Treatment of risks
1. Member States shall ensure that the management body
approves and periodically reviews the strategies and policies
for taking up, managing, monitoring and mitigating the risks The management body in its supervisory function and, where
the institution is or might be exposed to, including those posed one has been established, the risk committee shall determine the
by the macroeconomic environment in which it operates in nature, the amount, the format, and the frequency of the
relation to the status of the business cycle. information on risk which it is to receive. In order to assist
in the establishment of sound remuneration policies and prac­
tices, the risk committee shall, without prejudice to the tasks of
the remuneration committee, examine whether incentives
2. Member States shall ensure that the management body provided by the remuneration system take into consideration
devotes sufficient time to consideration of risk issues. The risk, capital, liquidity and the likelihood and timing of earnings.
management body shall be actively involved in and ensure
that adequate resources are allocated to the management of
all material risks addressed in this Directive and in Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 as well as in the valuation of assets, the use
5. Member States shall, in accordance with the propor­
of external credit ratings and internal models relating to those
tionality requirement laid down in Article 7(2) of Commission
risks. The institution shall establish reporting lines to the
Directive 2006/73/EC ( 1) , ensure that institutions have a risk
management body that cover all material risks and risk
management function independent from the operational
management policies and changes thereof.
functions and which shall have sufficient authority, stature,
resources and access to the management body.
3. Member States shall ensure that institutions that are
significant in terms of their size, internal organisation and the
Member States shall ensure that the risk management function
nature, scope and complexity of their activities establish a risk
ensures that all material risks are identified, measured and
committee composed of members of the management body
properly reported. They shall ensure that the risk management
who do not perform any executive function in the institution
function is actively involved in elaborating the institution's risk
concerned. Members of the risk committee shall have appro­
strategy and in all material risk management decisions and that
priate knowledge, skills and expertise to fully understand and
it can deliver a complete view of the whole range of risks of the
monitor the risk strategy and the risk appetite of the institution.
institution.
The risk committee shall advise the management body on the
Where necessary, Member States shall ensure that the risk
institution's overall current and future risk appetite and strategy
management function can report directly to the management
and assist the management body in overseeing the implemen­
body in its supervisory function, independent from senior
tation of that strategy by senior management. The management
management, and can raise concerns and warn that body,
body shall retain overall responsibility for risks.
where appropriate, where specific risk developments affect or
may affect the institution, without prejudice to the responsi­
bilities of the management body in its supervisory and/or mana­
gerial functions pursuant to this Directive and Regulation (EU)
The risk committee shall review whether prices of liabilities and No 575/2013.
assets offered to clients take fully into account the institution's
business model and risk strategy. Where prices do not properly
reflect risks in accordance with the business model and risk
strategy, the risk committee shall present a remedy plan to
the management body. The head of the risk management function shall be an inde­
pendent senior manager with distinct responsibility for the risk
management function. Where the nature, scale and complexity
of the activities of the institution do not justify a specially
appointed person, another senior person within the institution
Competent authorities may allow an institution which is not
may fulfil that function, provided there is no conflict of interest.
considered significant as referred to in the first subparagraph to
combine the risk committee with the audit committee as
referred to in Article 41 of Directive 2006/43/EC. Members
( 1 ) Commission Directive 2006/73/EC of 10 August 2006 imple­
menting Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of
of the combined committee shall have the knowledge, skills
the Council as regards organisational requirements and operating
and expertise required for the risk committee and for the conditions for investment firms and defined terms for the
audit committee. purposes of that Directive (OJ L 241, 2.9.2006, p. 26).
L 176/380 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
The head of the risk management function shall not be EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
removed without prior approval of the management body in the Commission by 1 January 2014.
its supervisory function and shall be able to have direct access
to the management body in its supervisory function where
necessary.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
The application of this Directive shall be without prejudice to
the application of Directive 2006/73/EC to investment firms.
Article 78
Article 77 Supervisory benchmarking of internal approaches for
calculating own funds requirements
Internal Approaches for calculating own funds
requirements 1. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
permitted to use internal approaches for the calculation of
1. Competent authorities shall encourage institutions that are
risk weighted exposure amounts or own fund requirements
significant in terms of their size, internal organisation and the
except for operational risk report the results of the calculations
nature, scale and complexity of their activities to develop
of their internal approaches for their exposures or positions that
internal credit risk assessment capacity and to increase use of
are included in the benchmark portfolios. Institutions shall
the internal ratings based approach for calculating own funds
submit the results of their calculations, together with an expla­
requirements for credit risk where their exposures are material
nation of the methodologies used to produce them, to the
in absolute terms and where they have at the same time a large
competent authorities at an appropriate frequency, and at
number of material counterparties. This Article shall be without
least annually.
prejudice to the fulfilment of criteria laid down in Part Three,
Title I, Chapter 3, Section 1 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions submit
the results of the calculations referred to in paragraph 1 in
2. Competent authorities shall, taking into account the accordance with the template developed by EBA in accordance
nature, scale and complexity of institutions' activities, monitor with paragraph 8 to the competent authorities and to EBA.
that they do not solely or mechanistically rely on external credit Where competent authorities choose to develop specific port­
ratings for assessing the creditworthiness of an entity or folios, they shall do so in consultation with EBA and ensure
financial instrument. that institutions report the results of the calculations separately
from the results of the calculations for EBA portfolios.
3. Competent authorities shall encourage institutions, taking
3. Competent authorities shall, on the basis of the
into account their size, internal organisation and the nature,
information submitted by institutions in accordance with
scale and complexity of their activities, to develop internal
paragraph 1, monitor the range of risk weighted exposure
specific risk assessment capacity and to increase use of
amounts or own funds requirements, as applicable, except for
internal models for calculating own funds requirements for
operational risk, for the exposures or transactions in the
specific risk of debt instruments in the trading book, together
benchmark portfolio resulting from the internal approaches of
with internal models to calculate own funds requirements for
those institutions. At least annually, competent authorities shall
default and migration risk where their exposures to specific risk
make an assessment of the quality of those approaches paying
are material in absolute terms and where they have a large
particular attention to:
number of material positions in debt instruments of different
issuers.
(a) those approaches that exhibit significant differences in own
fund requirements for the same exposure;
This Article shall be without prejudice to the fulfilment of the
criteria laid down in Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 5, Sections 1
to 5, of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
(b) approaches where there is particularly high or low diversity,
and also where there is a significant and systematic under-
estimation of own funds requirements.
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
further define the notion 'exposures to specific risk which are
material in absolute terms' referred to in the first subparagraph
of paragraph 3 and the thresholds for large numbers of material EBA shall produce a report to assist the competent authorities
counterparties and positions in debt instruments of different in the assessment of the quality of the internal approaches
issuers. based on the information referred to in paragraph 2.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/381
4. Where particular institutions diverge significantly from the (b) the benchmark portfolio or portfolios referred to in
majority of their peers or where there is little commonality in paragraph 1.
approach leading to a wide variance of results, competent auth­
orities shall investigate the reasons therefor and, if it can be
clearly identified that an institution's approach leads to an EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
underestimation of own funds requirements which is not to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
attributable to differences in the underlying risks of the
exposures or positions, shall take corrective action.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
5. The competent authorities shall ensure that their decisions in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
on the appropriateness of corrective actions as referred to in No 1093/2010.
paragraph 4 comply with the principle that such actions must
maintain the objectives of an internal approach and therefore
do not:
9. The Commission shall, by 1 April 2015 and after
consulting EBA, submit a report to the European Parliament
and to the Council on the functioning of the benchmarking
(a) lead to standardisation or preferred methods;
of internal models including the scope of the model. Where
appropriate, the report shall be followed by a legislative
proposal.
(b) create wrong incentives; or
Article 79
(c) cause herd behaviour.
Credit and counterparty risk
Competent authorities shall ensure that:
6. EBA may issue guidelines and recommendations in
accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010
where it considers them necessary on the basis of the
(a) credit-granting is based on sound and well-defined criteria
information and assessments referred to in paragraphs 2 and
and that the process for approving, amending, renewing,
3 of this Article in order to improve supervisory practices or
and re-financing credits is clearly established;
practices of institutions with regard to internal approaches.
(b) institutions have internal methodologies that enable them to
7. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
assess the credit risk of exposures to individual obligors,
specify:
securities or securitisation positions and credit risk at the
portfolio level. In particular, internal methodologies shall
not rely solely or mechanistically on external credit
(a) the procedures for sharing assessments made in accordance ratings. Where own funds requirements are based on a
with paragraph 3 between the competent authorities and rating by an External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAI)
with EBA; or based on the fact that an exposure is unrated, this shall
not exempt institutions from additionally considering other
relevant information for assessing their allocation of internal
(b) the standards for the assessment made by competent auth­ capital;
orities referred to in paragraph 3.
(c) the ongoing administration and monitoring of the various
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to credit risk-bearing portfolios and exposures of institutions,
the Commission by 1 January 2014. including for identifying and managing problem credits and
for making adequate value adjustments and provisions, is
operated through effective systems;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) (d) diversification of credit portfolios is adequate given an insti­
No 1093/2010. tution's target markets and overall credit strategy.
8. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards Article 80
to specify:
Residual risk
Competent authorities shall ensure that the risk that recognised
(a) the template, the definitions and the IT-solutions to be credit risk mitigation techniques used by institutions prove less
applied in the Union for the reporting referred to in effective than expected is addressed and controlled including by
paragraph 2; means of written policies and procedures.
L 176/382 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 81 Where using the treatment in Article 345 of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013, institutions shall ensure that they hold sufficient
Concentration risk
internal capital against the risk of loss which exists between the
Competent authorities shall ensure that the concentration risk time of the initial commitment and the following working day.
arising from exposures to each counterparty, including central
counterparties, groups of connected counterparties, and
counterparties in the same economic sector, geographic region
or from the same activity or commodity, the application of Article 84
credit risk mitigation techniques, and including in particular
Interest risk arising from non-trading book activities
risks associated with large indirect credit exposures such as a
single collateral issuer, is addressed and controlled including by Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions implement
means of written policies and procedures. systems to identify, evaluate and manage the risk arising from
potential changes in interest rates that affect an institution's
non-trading activities.
Article 82
Securitisation risk
Article 85
1. Competent authorities shall ensure that the risks arising
from securitisation transactions in relation to which the credit Operational risk
institutions are investor, originator or sponsor, including repu­
1. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
tational risks, such as arise in relation to complex structures or
implement policies and processes to evaluate and manage the
products, are evaluated and addressed through appropriate
exposure to operational risk, including model risk, and to cover
policies and procedures, to ensure that the economic
low-frequency high-severity events. Institutions shall articulate
substance of the transaction is fully reflected in the risk
what constitutes operational risk for the purposes of those
assessment and management decisions.
policies and procedures.
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that liquidity plans to
address the implications of both scheduled and early amorti­
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that contingency and
sation exist at institutions which are originators of revolving
business continuity plans are in place to ensure an institution's
securitisation transactions involving early amortisation provi­
ability to operate on an ongoing basis and limit losses in the
sions.
event of severe business disruption.
Article 83
Article 86
Market risk
Liquidity risk
1. Competent authorities shall ensure that policies and
processes for the identification, measurement and management 1. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions have
of all material sources and effects of market risks are imple­ robust strategies, policies, processes and systems for the identi­
mented. fication, measurement, management and monitoring of liquidity
risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, including intra-
day, so as to ensure that institutions maintain adequate levels of
liquidity buffers. Those strategies, policies, processes and
2. Where the short position falls due before the long
systems shall be tailored to business lines, currencies,
position, competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
branches and legal entities and shall include adequate allocation
also take measures against the risk of a shortage of liquidity.
mechanisms of liquidity costs, benefits and risks.
3. The internal capital shall be adequate for material market
risks that are not subject to an own funds requirement.
2. The strategies, policies, processes and systems referred to
in paragraph 1 shall be proportionate to the complexity, risk
profile, scope of operation of the institutions and risk tolerance
Institutions, which have, in calculating own funds requirements set by the management body and reflect the institution's
for position risk in accordance with Part Three, Title IV, Chapter importance in each Member State in which it carries out
2, of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, netted off their positions in business. Institutions shall communicate risk tolerance to all
one or more of the equities constituting a stock-index against relevant business lines.
one or more positions in the stock-index future or other stock-
index product shall have adequate internal capital to cover the
basis risk of loss caused by the future's or other product's value
not moving fully in line with that of its constituent equities. 3. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions, taking
Institutions shall also have such adequate internal capital where into account the nature, scale and complexity of their activities,
they hold opposite positions in stock-index futures which are have liquidity risk profiles that are consistent with and, not in
not identical in respect of either their maturity or their excess of, those required for a well-functioning and robust
composition or both. system.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/383
Competent authorities shall monitor developments in relation particular, off-balance sheet items and other contingent liabil­
to liquidity risk profiles, for example product design and ities, including those of Securitisation Special Purpose Entities
volumes, risk management, funding policies and funding (SSPE) or other special purpose entities, as referred to in Regu­
concentrations. lation (EU) No 575/2013, in relation to which the institution
acts as sponsor or provides material liquidity support.
Competent authorities shall take effective action where devel­
opments referred to in the second subparagraph may lead to 9. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
individual institution or systemic instability. consider the potential impact of institution-specific, market-
wide and combined alternative scenarios. Different time
periods and varying degrees of stress conditions shall be
considered.
Competent authorities shall inform EBA about any actions
carried out pursuant to the third subparagraph.
10. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
adjust their strategies, internal policies and limits on liquidity
risk and develop effective contingency plans, taking into
EBA shall make recommendations where appropriate in
account the outcome of the alternative scenarios referred to
accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
in paragraph 8.
4. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
11. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions have
develop methodologies for the identification, measurement,
in place liquidity recovery plans setting out adequate strategies
management and monitoring of funding positions. Those
and proper implementation measures in order to address
methodologies shall include the current and projected material
possible liquidity shortfalls, including in relation to branches
cash-flows in and arising from assets, liabilities, off-balance-
established in another Member State. Competent authorities
sheet items, including contingent liabilities and the possible
shall ensure that those plans are tested by the institutions at
impact of reputational risk.
least annually, updated on the basis of the outcome of the
alternative scenarios set out in paragraph 8, reported to and
approved by senior management, so that internal policies and
processes can be adjusted accordingly. Institutions shall take the
5. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions necessary operational steps in advance to ensure that liquidity
distinguish between pledged and unencumbered assets that are recovery plans can be implemented immediately. For credit
available at all times, in particular during emergency situations. institutions, such operational steps shall include holding
They shall also ensure that institutions take into account the collateral immediately available for central bank funding. This
legal entity in which assets reside, the country where assets are includes holding collateral where necessary in the currency of
legally recorded either in a register or in an account and their another Member State, or the currency of a third country to
eligibility and shall monitor how assets can be mobilised in a which the credit institution has exposures, and where oper­
timely manner. ationally necessary within the territory of a host Member
State or of a third country to whose currency it is exposed.
6. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions also
have regard to existing legal, regulatory and operational limi­ Article 87
tations to potential transfers of liquidity and unencumbered
Risk of excessive leverage
assets amongst entities, both within and outside the European
Economic Area. 1. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions have
policies and processes in place for the identification,
management and monitoring of the risk of excessive leverage.
Indicators for the risk of excessive leverage shall include the
7. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions leverage ratio determined in accordance with Article 429 of
consider different liquidity risk mitigation tools, including a Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and mismatches between assets
system of limits and liquidity buffers in order to be able to and obligations.
withstand a range of different stress events and an adequately
diversified funding structure and access to funding sources.
Those arrangements shall be reviewed regularly.
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions
address the risk of excessive leverage in a precautionary
manner by taking due account of potential increases in the
8. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions risk of excessive leverage caused by reductions of the institu­
consider alternative scenarios on liquidity positions and on tion's own funds through expected or realised losses, depending
risk mitigants and review the assumptions underlying on the applicable accounting rules. To that end, institutions
decisions concerning the funding position at least annually. shall be able to withstand a range of different stress events
For those purposes, alternative scenarios shall address, in with respect to the risk of excessive leverage.
L 176/384 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
S u b - S e c t i o n 3 balance of knowledge, skills, diversity and experience of the
management body and prepare a description of the roles
G o v e r n a n c e
and capabilities for a particular appointment, and assess the
Article 88 time commitment expected.
Governance arrangements
1. Member States shall ensure that the management body Furthermore, the nomination committee shall decide on a
defines, oversees and is accountable for the implementation of target for the representation of the underrepresented gender
the governance arrangements that ensure effective and prudent in the management body and prepare a policy on how to
management of an institution, including the segregation of increase the number of the underrepresented gender in the
duties in the organisation and the prevention of conflicts of management body in order to meet that target. The target,
interest. policy and its implementation shall be made public in
accordance with Article 435(2)(c) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013;
Those arrangements shall comply with the following principles:
(b) periodically, and at least annually, assess the structure, size,
(a) the management body must have the overall responsibility composition and performance of the management body and
for the institution and approve and oversee the implemen­ make recommendations to the management body with
tation of the institution's strategic objectives, risk strategy regard to any changes;
and internal governance;
(c) periodically, and at least annually, assess the knowledge,
(b) the management body must ensure the integrity of the
skills and experience of individual members of the
accounting and financial reporting systems, including
management body and of the management body collec­
financial and operational controls and compliance with
tively, and report to the management body accordingly;
the law and relevant standards;
(d) periodically review the policy of the management body for
(c) the management body must oversee the process of
selection and appointment of senior management and make
disclosure and communications;
recommendations to the management body.
(d) the management body must be responsible for providing
effective oversight of senior management; In performing its duties, the nomination committee shall, to the
extent possible and on an ongoing basis, take account of the
need to ensure that the management body's decision making is
(e) the chairman of the management body in its supervisory not dominated by any one individual or small group of indi­
function of an institution must not exercise simultaneously viduals in a manner that is detrimental to the interests of the
the functions of a chief executive officer within the same institution as a whole.
institution, unless justified by the institution and authorised
by competent authorities.
The nomination committee shall be able to use any forms of
resources that it considers to be appropriate, including external
Member States shall ensure that the management body advice, and shall receive appropriate funding to that effect.
monitors and periodically assesses the effectiveness of the insti­
tution's governance arrangements and takes appropriate steps to
address any deficiencies.
Where, under national law, the management body does not
have any competence in the process of selection and
appointment of any of its members, this paragraph shall not
2. Member States shall ensure that institutions which are apply.
significant in terms of their size, internal organisation and the
nature, scope and complexity of their activities establish a nomi­
nation committee composed of members of the management
body who do not perform any executive function in the insti­ Article 89
tution concerned.
Country-by-country reporting
1. From 1 January 2015 Member States shall require each
The nomination committee shall: institution to disclose annually, specifying, by Member State and
by third country in which it has an establishment, the following
information on a consolidated basis for the financial year:
(a) identify and recommend, for the approval of the
management body or for approval of the general meeting,
candidates to fill management body vacancies, evaluate the (a) name(s), nature of activities and geographical location;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/385
(b) turnover; Article 91
Management body
(c) number of employees on a full time equivalent basis; 1. Members of the management body shall at all times be of
sufficiently good repute and possess sufficient knowledge, skills
and experience to perform their duties. The overall composition
of the management body shall reflect an adequately broad range
(d) profit or loss before tax;
of experiences. Members of the management body shall, in
particular, fulfil the requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 8.
(e) tax on profit or loss;
2. All members of the management body shall commit
sufficient time to perform their functions in the institution.
(f) public subsidies received.
3. The number of directorships which may be held by a
member of the management body at the same time shall take
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member States shall require
into account individual circumstances and the nature, scale and
institutions to disclose the information referred to in paragraph
complexity of the institution's activities. Unless representing the
1(a), (b) and (c) for the first time on 1 July 2014.
Member State, members of the management body of an insti­
tution that is significant in terms of its size, internal organi­
sation and the nature, the scope and the complexity of its
3. By 1 July 2014, all global systemically important insti­ activities shall, from 1 July 2014, not hold more than one of
tutions authorised within the Union, as identified inter­ the following combinations of directorships at the same time:
nationally, shall submit to the Commission the information
referred to in paragraph 1(d), (e) and (f) on a confidential
basis. The Commission, after consulting EBA, EIOPA and
(a) one executive directorship with two non-executive director­
ESMA, as appropriate, shall conduct a general assessment as
ships;
regards potential negative economic consequences of the
public disclosure of such information, including the impact
on competitiveness, investment and credit availability and the
stability of the financial system. The Commission shall submit (b) four non-executive directorships.
its report to the European Parliament and to the Council by
31 December 2014.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the following shall count
as a single directorship:
In the event that the Commission report identifies significant
negative effects, the Commission shall consider making an
appropriate legislative proposal for an amendment of the (a) executive or non-executive directorships held within the
disclosure obligations set out in paragraph 1 and may, in same group;
accordance with point (h) of Article 145, decide to defer
those obligations. The Commission shall review the necessity
to extend deferral annually.
(b) executive or non-executive directorships held within:
4. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be (i) institutions which are members of the same institutional
audited in accordance with Directive 2006/43/EC and shall be protection scheme provided that the conditions set out
published, where possible, as an annex to the annual financial in Article 113(7) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 are
statements or, where applicable, to the consolidated financial fulfilled; or
statements of the institution concerned.
(ii) undertakings (including non-financial entities) in which
5. To the extent that future Union legislative acts for the institution holds a qualifying holding.
disclosure obligations go beyond those laid down in this
Article, this Article shall cease to apply and shall be deleted
accordingly.
5. Directorships in organisations which do not pursue
predominantly commercial objectives shall not count for the
purposes of paragraph 3.
Article 90
Public disclosure of return on assets
6. Competent authorities may authorise members of the
Institutions shall disclose in their annual report among the key management body to hold one additional non-executive direc­
indicators their return on assets, calculated as their net profit torship. Competent authorities shall regularly inform EBA of
divided by their total balance sheet. such authorisations.
L 176/386 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
7. The management body shall possess adequate collective 13. This Article shall be without prejudice to provisions on
knowledge, skills and experience to be able to understand the the representation of employees in the management body as
institution's activities, including the main risks. provided for by national law.
8. Each member of the management body shall act with Article 92
honesty, integrity and independence of mind to effectively
Remuneration policies
assess and challenge the decisions of the senior management
where necessary and to effectively oversee and monitor
1. The application of paragraph 2 of this Article and of
management decision-making.
Articles 93, 94 and 95 shall be ensured by competent auth­
orities for institutions at group, parent company and subsidiary
levels, including those established in offshore financial centres.
9. Institutions shall devote adequate human and financial
resources to the induction and training of members of the
management body.
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that, when establishing
and applying the total remuneration policies, inclusive of
salaries and discretionary pension benefits, for categories of
10. Member States or competent authorities shall require staff including senior management, risk takers, staff engaged
institutions and their respective nomination committees to in control functions and any employee receiving total remun­
engage a broad set of qualities and competences when eration that takes them into the same remuneration bracket as
recruiting members to the management body and for that senior management and risk takers, whose professional activities
purpose to put in place a policy promoting diversity on the have a material impact on their risk profile, institutions comply
management body. with the following principles in a manner and to the extent that
is appropriate to their size, internal organisation and the nature,
scope and complexity of their activities:
11. Competent authorities shall collect the information
disclosed in accordance with Article 435(2)(c) of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 and shall use it to benchmark diversity (a) the remuneration policy is consistent with and promotes
practices. The competent authorities shall provide EBA with sound and effective risk management and does not
that information. EBA shall use that information to encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of tolerated
benchmark diversity practices at Union level. risk of the institution;
12. EBA shall issue guidelines on the following: (b) the remuneration policy is in line with the business strategy,
objectives, values and long-term interests of the institution,
and incorporates measures to avoid conflicts of interest;
(a) the notion of sufficient time commitment of a member of
the management body to perform his functions, in relation
to the individual circumstances and the nature, scale and
(c) the institution' s management body in its supervisory
complexity of activities of the institution;
function adopts and periodically reviews the general prin­
ciples of the remuneration policy and is responsible for
overseeing its implementation;
(b) the notion of adequate collective knowledge, skills and
experience of the management body as referred to in
paragraph 7;
(d) the implementation of the remuneration policy is, at least
annually, subject to central and independent internal review
for compliance with policies and procedures for remun­
(c) the notions of honesty, integrity and independence of mind eration adopted by the management body in its supervisory
of a member of the management body as referred to in function;
paragraph 8;
(e) staff engaged in control functions are independent from the
(d) the notion of adequate human and financial resources business units they oversee, have appropriate authority, and
devoted to the induction and training of members of the are remunerated in accordance with the achievement of the
management body as referred to in paragraph 9; objectives linked to their functions, independent of the
performance of the business areas they control;
(e) the notion of diversity to be taken into account for the
selection of members of the management body as referred
(f) the remuneration of the senior officers in the risk
to in paragraph 10.
management and compliance functions is directly overseen
by the remuneration committee referred to in Article 95 or,
if such a committee has not been established, by the
EBA shall issue those guidelines by 31 December 2015. management body in its supervisory function;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/387
(g) the remuneration policy, taking into account national payment of performance-based components of remun­
criteria on wage setting, makes a clear distinction between eration is spread over a period which takes account of
criteria for setting: the underlying business cycle of the credit institution and
its business risks;
(i) basic fixed remuneration, which should primarily reflect
relevant professional experience and organisational (c) the total variable remuneration does not limit the ability of
responsibility as set out in an employee's job description the institution to strengthen its capital base;
as part of the terms of employment; and
(d) guaranteed variable remuneration is not consistent with
sound risk management or the pay-for-performance
(ii) variable remuneration which should reflect a sustainable
principle and shall not be a part of prospective remun­
and risk adjusted performance as well as performance in
eration plans;
excess of that required to fulfil the employee's job
description as part of the terms of employment.
(e) guaranteed variable remuneration is exceptional, occurs
only when hiring new staff and where the institution has
Article 93
a sound and strong capital base and is limited to the first
Institutions that benefit from government intervention year of employment;
In the case of institutions that benefit from exceptional
government intervention, the following principles shall apply
(f) fixed and variable components of total remuneration are
in addition to those set out in Article 92(2):
appropriately balanced and the fixed component represents
a sufficiently high proportion of the total remuneration to
allow the operation of a fully flexible policy on variable
(a) variable remuneration is strictly limited as a percentage of remuneration components, including the possibility to pay
net revenue where it is inconsistent with the maintenance of no variable remuneration component;
a sound capital base and timely exit from government
support;
(g) institutions shall set the appropriate ratios between the
fixed and the variable component of the total remuner­
(b) the relevant competent authorities require institutions to ation, whereby the following principles shall apply:
restructure remuneration in a manner aligned with sound
risk management and long-term growth, including, where
appropriate, establishing limits to the remuneration of the
(i) the variable component shall not exceed 100 % of the
members of the management body of the institution;
fixed component of the total remuneration for each
individual. Member States may set a lower maximum
percentage;
(c) no variable remuneration is paid to members of the
management body of the institution unless justified.
(ii) Members States may allow shareholders or owners or
members of the institution to approve a higher
maximum level of the ratio between the fixed and
Article 94
variable components of remuneration provided the
Variable elements of remuneration overall level of the variable component shall not
exceed 200 % of the fixed component of the total
1. For variable elements of remuneration, the following prin­
remuneration for each individual. Member States may
ciples shall apply in addition to, and under the same conditions
set a lower maximum percentage.
as, those set out in Article 92(2):
Any approval of a higher ratio in accordance with the
(a) where remuneration is performance related, the total first subparagraph of this point shall be carried out in
amount of remuneration is based on a combination of accordance with the following procedure:
the assessment of the performance of the individual and
of the business unit concerned and of the overall results of
the institution and when assessing individual performance,
— the shareholders or owners or members of the
financial and non-financial criteria are taken into account;
institution shall act upon a detailed recommen­
dation by the institution giving the reasons for,
and the scope of, an approval sought, including
(b) the assessment of the performance is set in a multi-year the number of staff affected, their functions and
framework in order to ensure that the assessment process the expected impact on the requirement to
is based on longer-term performance and that the actual maintain a sound capital base;
L 176/388 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
— shareholders or owners or members of the insti­ taking into account all relevant factors including
tution shall act by a majority of at least 66 % inflation rate and risk, which includes length of
provided that at least 50 % of the shares or deferral. The EBA guidelines on the discount rate
equivalent ownership rights are represented or, shall specifically consider how to incentivise the use
failing that, shall act by a majority of 75 % of of instruments which are deferred for a period of
the ownership rights represented; not less than five years;
— the institution shall notify all shareholders or (h) payments relating to the early termination of a contract
owners or members of the institution, providing reflect performance achieved over time and do not
a reasonable notice period in advance, that an reward failure or misconduct;
approval under the first subparagraph of this
point will be sought;
(i) remuneration packages relating to compensation or buy
out from contracts in previous employment must align
with the long-term interests of the institution including
— the institution shall, without delay, inform the
retention, deferral, performance and clawback arrange­
competent authority of the recommendation to
ments;
its shareholders or owners or members, including
the proposed higher maximum ratio and the
reasons therefore and shall be able to demonstrate
to the competent authority that the proposed (j) the measurement of performance used to calculate variable
higher ratio does not conflict with the institution's remuneration components or pools of variable remun­
obligations under this Directive and under Regu­ eration components includes an adjustment for all types
lation (EU) No 575/2013, having regard in of current and future risks and takes into account the
particular to the institution's own funds cost of the capital and the liquidity required;
obligations;
(k) the allocation of the variable remuneration components
— the institution shall, without delay, inform the within the institution shall also take into account all
competent authority of the decisions taken by its types of current and future risks;
shareholders or owners or members, including any
approved higher maximum ratio pursuant to the
first subparagraph of this point, and the
(l) a substantial portion, and in any event at least 50 %, of any
competent authorities shall use the information
variable remuneration shall consist of a balance of the
received to benchmark the practices of institutions
following:
in that regard. The competent authorities shall
provide EBA with that information and EBA shall
publish it on an aggregate home Member State
basis in a common reporting format. EBA may (i) shares or equivalent ownership interests, subject to the
elaborate guidelines to facilitate the implementation legal structure of the institution concerned or share-
of this indent and to ensure the consistency of the linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments,
information collected; in the case of a non-listed institution;
— staff who are directly concerned by the higher (ii) where possible, other instruments within the meaning
maximum levels of variable remuneration referred of Article 52 or 63 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or
to in this point shall not, where applicable, be other instruments which can be fully converted to
allowed to exercise, directly or indirectly, any Common Equity Tier 1 instruments or written down,
voting rights they may have as shareholders or that in each case adequately reflect the credit quality of
owners or members of the institution; the institution as a going concern and are appropriate
to be used for the purposes of variable remuneration.
(iii) Member States may allow institutions to apply the
discount rate referred to in the second subparagraph The instruments referred to in this point shall be subject to
of this point to a maximum of 25 % of total variable an appropriate retention policy designed to align incentives
remuneration provided it is paid in instruments that with the longer-term interests of the institution. Member
are deferred for a period of not less than five years. States or their competent authorities may place restrictions
Member States may set a lower maximum percentage. on the types and designs of those instruments or prohibit
certain instruments as appropriate. This point shall be
applied to both the portion of the variable remuneration
component deferred in accordance with point (m) and the
EBA shall prepare and publish, by 31 March 2014, portion of the variable remuneration component not
guidelines on the applicable notional discount rate deferred;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/389
(m) a substantial portion, and in any event at least 40 %, of the (p) staff members are required to undertake not to use
variable remuneration component is deferred over a period personal hedging strategies or remuneration- and liability-
which is not less than three to five years and is correctly related insurance to undermine the risk alignment effects
aligned with the nature of the business, its risks and the embedded in their remuneration arrangements;
activities of the member of staff in question.
(q) variable remuneration is not paid through vehicles or
Remuneration payable under deferral arrangements shall
methods that facilitate the non-compliance with this
vest no faster than on a pro-rata basis. In the case of a
Directive or Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
variable remuneration component of a particularly high
amount, at least 60 % of the amount shall be deferred.
The length of the deferral period shall be established in
accordance with the business cycle, the nature of the
business, its risks and the activities of the member of 2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards
staff in question; with respect to specifying the classes of instruments that
satisfy the conditions set out in point (l)(ii) of paragraph 1
and with respect to qualitative and appropriate quantitative
criteria to identify categories of staff whose professional
(n) the variable remuneration, including the deferred portion, is activities have a material impact on the institution's risk
paid or vests only if it is sustainable according to the profile as referred to in Article 92(2).
financial situation of the institution as a whole, and
justified on the basis of the performance of the institution,
the business unit and the individual concerned.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 March 2014.
Without prejudice to the general principles of national
contract and labour law, the total variable remuneration
shall generally be considerably contracted where subdued
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
or negative financial performance of the institution occurs,
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
taking into account both current remuneration and
accordance with Article 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
reductions in payouts of amounts previously earned,
No 1093/2010.
including through malus or clawback arrangements.
Up to 100 % of the total variable remuneration shall be Article 95
subject to malus or clawback arrangements. Institutions
shall set specific criteria for the application of malus and Remuneration Committee
clawback. Such criteria shall in particular cover situations
1. Competent authorities shall ensure that institutions that
where the staff member:
are significant in terms of their size, internal organisation and
the nature, the scope and the complexity of their activities
establish a remuneration committee. The remuneration
committee shall be constituted in such a way as to enable it
(i) participated in or was responsible for conduct which
to exercise competent and independent judgment on remun­
resulted in significant losses to the institution;
eration policies and practices and the incentives created for
managing risk, capital and liquidity.
(ii) failed to meet appropriate standards of fitness and
propriety;
2. Competent authorities shall ensure that the remuneration
committee is responsible for the preparation of decisions
regarding remuneration, including those which have impli­
(o) the pension policy is in line with the business strategy, cations for the risk and risk management of the institution
objectives, values and long-term interests of the institution. concerned and which are to be taken by the management
body. The Chair and the members of the remuneration
committee shall be members of the management body who
do not perform any executive function in the institution
If the employee leaves the institution before retirement, concerned. If employee representation on the management
discretionary pension benefits shall be held by the insti­ body is provided for by national law, the remuneration
tution for a period of five years in the form of instruments committee shall include one or more employee representatives.
referred to in point (l). Where an employee reaches When preparing such decisions, the remuneration committee
retirement, discretionary pension benefits shall be paid to shall take into account the long-term interests of shareholders,
the employee in the form of instruments referred to in investors and other stakeholders in the institution and the
point (l) subject to a five-year retention period; public interest.
L 176/390 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 96 Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 the competent
authorities inform EBA without delay about the results of the
Maintenance of a website on corporate governance and
review.
remuneration
Institutions that maintain a website shall explain there how they
comply with the requirements of Articles 88 to 95. Article 98
Technical criteria for the supervisory review and
evaluation
S e c t i o n I I I
1. In addition to credit, market and operational risks, the
S u p e r v i s o r y r e v i e w a n d e v a l u a t i o n review and evaluation performed by competent authorities
p r o c e s s pursuant to Article 97 shall include at least:
Article 97
Supervisory review and evaluation (a) the results of the stress test carried out in accordance with
Article 177 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 by institutions
1. Taking into account the technical criteria set out in
applying an internal ratings based approach;
Article 98, the competent authorities shall review the arrange­
ments, strategies, processes and mechanisms implemented by
the institutions to comply with this Directive and Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 and evaluate: (b) the exposure to and management of concentration risk by
institutions, including their compliance with the
requirements set out in Part Four of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 and Article 81 of this Directive;
(a) risks to which the institutions are or might be exposed;
(c) the robustness, suitability and manner of application of the
policies and procedures implemented by institutions for the
(b) risks that an institution poses to the financial system taking
management of the residual risk associated with the use of
into account the identification and measurement of systemic
recognised credit risk mitigation techniques;
risk under Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, or
recommendations of the ESRB, where appropriate; and
(d) the extent to which the own funds held by an institution in
respect of assets which it has securitised are adequate having
(c) risks revealed by stress testing taking into account the regard to the economic substance of the transaction,
nature, scale and complexity of an institution's activities. including the degree of risk transfer achieved;
(e) the exposure to, measurement and management of liquidity
2. The scope of the review and evaluation referred to in
risk by institutions, including the development of alternative
paragraph 1 shall cover all requirements of this Directive and
scenario analyses, the management of risk mitigants (in
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
particular the level, composition and quality of liquidity
buffers) and effective contingency plans;
3. On the basis of the review and evaluation referred to in
paragraph 1, the competent authorities shall determine whether (f) the impact of diversification effects and how such effects are
the arrangements, strategies, processes and mechanisms imple­ factored into the risk measurement system;
mented by institutions and the own funds and liquidity held by
them ensure a sound management and coverage of their risks.
(g) the results of stress tests carried out by institutions using an
internal model to calculate market risk own funds
requirements under Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 5 of Regu­
4. Competent authorities shall establish the frequency and
lation (EU) No 575/2013;
intensity of the review and evaluation referred to in paragraph
1 having regard to the size, systemic importance, nature, scale
and complexity of the activities of the institution concerned and
taking into account the principle of proportionality. The review (h) the geographical location of institutions' exposures;
and evaluation shall be updated at least on an annual basis for
institutions covered by the supervisory examination programme
referred to in Article 99(2).
(i) the business model of the institution;
5. Member States shall ensure that where a review shows (j) the assessment of systemic risk, in accordance with the
that an institution may pose systemic risk in accordance with criteria set out in Article 97.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/391
2. For the purposes of point (e) of paragraph 1, the Article 99
competent authorities shall regularly carry out a comprehensive
Supervisory examination programme
assessment of the overall liquidity risk management by insti­
tutions and promote the development of sound internal 1. The competent authorities shall, at least annually, adopt a
methodologies. While conducting those reviews, the supervisory examination programme for the institutions they
competent authorities shall have regard to the role played by supervise. Such programme shall take into account the super­
institutions in the financial markets. The competent authorities visory review and evaluation process under Article 97. It shall
in one Member State shall duly consider the potential impact of contain the following:
their decisions on the stability of the financial system in all
other Member States concerned.
(a) an indication of how competent authorities intend to carry
out their tasks and allocate their resources;
3. Competent authorities shall monitor whether an insti­
tution has provided implicit support to a securitisation. If an
institution is found to have provided implicit support on more (b) an identification of which institutions are intended to be
than one occasion the competent authority shall take appro­ subject to enhanced supervision and the measures taken
priate measures reflective of the increased expectation that it for such supervision as set out in paragraph 3;
will provide future support to its securitisation thus failing to
achieve a significant transfer of risk.
(c) a plan for inspections at the premises used by an institution,
including its branches and subsidiaries established in other
Member States in accordance with Articles 52, 119
4. For the purposes of the determination to be made under
and 122.
Article 97(3) of this Directive, competent authorities shall
consider whether the valuation adjustments taken for
positions or portfolios in the trading book, as set out in
Article 105 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, enable the insti­ 2. Supervisory examination programmes shall include the
tution to sell or hedge out its positions within a short period following institutions:
without incurring material losses under normal market
conditions.
(a) institutions for which the results of the stress tests referred
to in points (a) and (g) of Article 98(1) and Article 100, or
the outcome of the supervisory review and evaluation
5. The review and evaluation performed by competent auth­
process under Article 97, indicate significant risks to their
orities shall include the exposure of institutions to the interest
ongoing financial soundness or indicate breaches of national
rate risk arising from non-trading activities. Measures shall be
provisions transposing this Directive and of Regulation (EU)
required at least in the case of institutions whose economic
No 575/2013;
value declines by more than 20 % of their own funds as a
result of a sudden and unexpected change in interest rates of
200 basis points or such change as defined in the EBA guide­
(b) institutions that pose systemic risk to the financial system;
lines.
(c) any other institution for which the competent authorities
6. The review and evaluation performed by competent auth­ deem it to be necessary.
orities shall include the exposure of institutions to the risk of
excessive leverage as reflected by indicators of excessive
leverage, including the leverage ratio determined in accordance
3. Where appropriate under Article 97 the following
with Article 429 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. In deter­
measures shall, in particular, be taken if necessary:
mining the adequacy of the leverage ratio of institutions and of
the arrangements, strategies, processes and mechanisms imple­
mented by institutions to manage the risk of excessive leverage,
competent authorities shall take into account the business (a) an increase in the number or frequency of on-site
model of those institutions. inspections of the institution;
(b) a permanent presence of the competent authority at the
7. The review and evaluation conducted by competent auth­
institution;
orities shall include governance arrangements of institutions,
their corporate culture and values, and the ability of members
of the management body to perform their duties. In conducting
(c) additional or more frequent reporting by the institution;
that review and evaluation, competent authorities shall, at least,
have access to agendas and supporting documents for meetings
of the management body and its committees, and the results of
the internal or external evaluation of performance of the (d) additional or more frequent review of the operational,
management body. strategic or business plans of the institution;
L 176/392 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(e) thematic examinations monitoring specific risks that are before using such an approach for the calculation of own funds
likely to materialise. requirements in accordance with Part Three of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 but does not meet the requirements for applying
that approach anymore, the competent authorities shall require
the institution to either demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
4. Adoption of a supervisory examination programme by the
competent authorities that the effect of non-compliance is
competent authority of the home Member State shall not
immaterial where applicable in accordance with Regulation
prevent the competent authorities of the host Member State
(EU) No 575/2013 or present a plan for the timely restoration
from carrying out, on a case-by-case basis, on-the-spot checks
of compliance with the requirements and set a deadline for its
and inspections of the activities carried out by branches of
implementation. The competent authorities shall require
institutions on their territory in accordance with Article 52(3).
improvements to that plan if it is unlikely to result in full
compliance or if the deadline is inappropriate. If the institution
is unlikely to be able to restore compliance within an appro­
Article 100 priate deadline and, where applicable, has not satisfactorily
demonstrated that the effect of non-compliance is immaterial,
Supervisory stress testing the permission to use the approach shall be revoked or limited
to compliant areas or those where compliance can be achieved
1. The competent authorities shall carry out as appropriate
within an appropriate deadline.
but at least annually supervisory stress tests on institutions they
supervise, to facilitate the review and evaluation process under
Article 97.
5. In order to promote consistent soundness of internal
approaches in the Union, EBA shall analyse internal approaches
2. EBA shall issue guidelines in accordance with Article 16 of across institutions, including the consistency of implementation
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 to ensure that common of the definition of default and how those institutions treat
methodologies are used by the competent authorities when similar risks or exposures.
conducting annual supervisory stress tests.
EBA shall develop guidelines in accordance with Article 16 of
Article 101 Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, which contain benchmarks on
the basis of that analysis.
Ongoing review of the permission to use internal
approaches
1. Competent authorities shall review on a regular basis, and
at least every 3 years, institutions' compliance with the Competent authorities shall take into account that analysis and
requirements regarding approaches that require permission by those benchmarks for the review of the permissions they grant
the competent authorities before using such approaches for the to institutions to use internal approaches.
calculation of own funds requirements in accordance with Part
Three of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. They shall have
particular regard to changes in an institution's business and to
the implementation of those approaches to new products. S e c t i o n I V
Where material deficiencies are identified in risk capture by
S u p e r v i s o r y m e a s u r e s a n d p o w e r s
an institution's internal approach, competent authorities shall
ensure they are rectified or take appropriate steps to mitigate Article 102
their consequences, including by imposing higher multiplication
Supervisory measures
factors, or imposing capital add-ons, or taking other appropriate
and effective measures. 1. Competent authorities shall require an institution to take
the necessary measures at an early stage to address relevant
problems in the following circumstances:
2. The competent authorities shall in particular review and
assess whether the institution uses well developed and up-to-
date techniques and practices for those approaches.
(a) the institution does not meet the requirements of this
Directive or of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
3. If for an internal market risk model numerous over­
shootings referred to in Article 366 of Regulation (EU)
(b) the competent authorities have evidence that the institution
No 575/2013 indicate that the model is not or is no longer
is likely to breach the requirements of this Directive or of
sufficiently accurate, the competent authorities shall revoke the
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 within the following 12
permission for using the internal model or impose appropriate
months.
measures to ensure that the model is improved promptly.
4. If an institution has received permission to apply an 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the powers of competent
approach that requires permission by the competent authorities authorities shall include those referred to in Article 104.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/393
Article 103 (e) to restrict or limit the business, operations or network of
institutions or to request the divestment of activities that
Application of supervisory measures to institutions with
pose excessive risks to the soundness of an institution;
similar risk profiles
1. Where the competent authorities determine under
Article 97 that institutions with similar risk profiles such as (f) to require the reduction of the risk inherent in the activities,
similar business models or geographical location of exposures, products and systems of institutions;
are or might be exposed to similar risks or pose similar risks to
the financial system, they may apply the supervisory review and
evaluation process referred to in Article 97 to those institutions
(g) to require institutions to limit variable remuneration as a
in a similar or identical manner. For those purposes, Member
percentage of net revenues where it is inconsistent with the
States shall ensure that competent authorities have the necessary
maintenance of a sound capital base;
legal powers to impose requirements under this Directive and
under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on those institutions in a
similar or identical manner, including in particular the exercise
of supervisory powers under Articles 104, 105 (h) to require institutions to use net profits to strengthen own
and 106. funds;
The types of institution referred to in the first subparagraph (i) to restrict or prohibit distributions or interest payments by
may in particular be determined in accordance with the an institution to shareholders, members or holders of
criteria referred to in Article 98(1)(j). Additional Tier 1 instruments where the prohibition does
not constitute an event of default of the institution;
2. The competent authorities shall notify EBA where they
(j) to impose additional or more frequent reporting require­
apply paragraph 1. EBA shall monitor supervisory practices
ments, including reporting on capital and liquidity positions;
and issue guidelines to specify how similar risks should be
assessed and how consistent application of paragraph 1 across
the Union can be ensured. Those guidelines shall be adopted in
accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 (k) to impose specific liquidity requirements, including
restrictions on maturity mismatches between assets and
liabilities;
Article 104
Supervisory powers (l) to require additional disclosures.
1. For the purposes of Article 97, Article 98(4),
Article 101(4) and Articles 102 and 103 and the application
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, competent authorities shall 2. The additional own funds requirements referred to in
have at least the following powers: paragraph 1(a) shall be imposed by the competent authorities
at least where,
(a) to require institutions to hold own funds in excess of the
requirements set out in Chapter 4 of this Title and in (a) an institution does not meet the requirement set out in
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 relating to elements of Articles 73 and 74 of this Directive or in Article 393 of
risks and risks not covered by Article 1 of that Regulation; Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(b) risks or elements of risks are not covered by the own funds
(b) to require the reinforcement of the arrangements, processes,
requirements set out in Chapter 4 of this Title or in Regu­
mechanisms and strategies implemented in accordance with
lation (EU) No 575/2013;
Articles 73 and 74;
(c) the sole application of other administrative measures is
(c) to require institutions to present a plan to restore unlikely to improve the arrangements, processes, mech­
compliance with supervisory requirements pursuant to this anisms and strategies sufficiently within an appropriate
Directive and to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and set a timeframe;
deadline for its implementation, including improvements to
that plan regarding scope and deadline;
(d) the review referred to in Article 98(4) or Article 101(4)
reveals that the non-compliance with the requirements for
(d) to require institutions to apply a specific provisioning policy the application of the respective approach will likely lead to
or treatment of assets in terms of own funds requirements; inadequate own funds requirements;
L 176/394 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(e) the risks are likely to be underestimated despite compliance charges, the level of which broadly relates to the disparity
with the applicable requirements of this Directive and of between the actual liquidity position of an institution and any
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013; or liquidity and stable funding requirements established at national
or Union level.
(f) an institution reports to the competent authority in
accordance with Article 377(5) of Regulation (EU)
Article 106
No 575/2013 that the stress test results referred to in
that Article materially exceed its own funds requirement Specific publication requirements
for the correlation trading portfolio.
1. Member States shall empower the competent authorities
to require institutions:
3. For the purposes of determining the appropriate level of
own funds on the basis of the review and evaluation carried out
in accordance with Section III, the competent authorities shall (a) to publish information referred to in Part Eight of Regu­
assess whether any imposition of an additional own funds lation (EU) No 575/2013 more than once per year, and to
requirement in excess of the own funds requirement is set deadlines for publication;
necessary to capture risks to which an institution is or might
be exposed, taking into account the following:
(b) to use specific media and locations for publications other
than the financial statements.
(a) the quantitative and qualitative aspects of an institution's
assessment process referred to in Article 73;
2. Member States shall empower competent authorities to
(b) an institution's arrangements, processes and mechanisms require parent undertakings to publish annually, either in full
referred to in Article 74; or by way of references to equivalent information, a description
of their legal structure and governance and organisational
structure of the group of institutions in accordance with
Article 14(3), Article 74(1) and Article 109(2).
(c) the outcome of the review and evaluation carried out in
accordance with Article 97 or 101;
Article 107
(d) the assessment of systemic risk.
Consistency of supervisory reviews, evaluations and
supervisory measures
Article 105 1. Competent authorities shall inform EBA of:
Specific liquidity requirements
For the purposes of determining the appropriate level of
(a) the functioning of their review and evaluation process
liquidity requirements on the basis of the review and evaluation
referred to in Article 97;
carried out in accordance with Section III, the competent auth­
orities shall assess whether any imposition of a specific liquidity
requirement is necessary to capture liquidity risks to which an
institution is or might be exposed, taking into account the (b) the methodology used to base decisions referred to in
following: Articles 98, 100, 101, 102, 104 and 105 on the process
referred to in point (a).
(a) the particular business model of the institution;
EBA shall assess the information provided by competent auth­
orities for the purposes of developing consistency in the super­
(b) the institution's arrangements, processes and mechanisms visory review and evaluation process. It may request additional
referred to in Section II and in particular in Article 86; information from competent authorities in order to complete its
assessment, on a proportional basis in accordance with
Article 35 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(c) the outcome of the review and evaluation carried out in
accordance with Article 97;
2. EBA shall annually report to the European Parliament and
the Council on the degree of convergence of the application of
(d) systemic liquidity risk that threatens the integrity of the
this Chapter between Member States.
financial markets of the Member State concerned.
In particular, without prejudice to Article 67, competent auth­ In order to increase the degree of such convergence, EBA shall
orities should consider the need to apply administrative conduct peer reviews in accordance with Article 30 of Regu­
penalties or other administrative measures, including prudential lation (EU) No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/395
3. EBA shall issue guidelines addressed to the competent holding company in a Member State, the first subparagraph
authorities in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) shall apply only to the institution to which supervision on a
No 1093/2010 to further specify, in a manner that is appro­ consolidated basis applies in accordance with Article 111.
priate to the size, the structure and the internal organisation of
institutions and the nature, scope and complexity of their activ­
ities, the common procedures and methodologies for the super­
visory review and evaluation process referred to in paragraph 1 4. Competent authorities shall require subsidiary institutions
of this Article and in Article 97 and for the assessment of the to apply the requirements set out in Article 73 on a sub-
organisation and treatment of the risks referred to in Articles 76 consolidated basis if those institutions, or the parent under­
to 87, in particular relating to concentration risk in accordance taking where it is a financial holding company or mixed
with Article 81. financial holding company, have an institution or a financial
institution or an asset management company as defined in
Article 2(5) of Directive 2002/87/EC as a subsidiary in a third
country, or hold a participation in such an undertaking.
S e c t i o n V
L e v e l o f a p p l i c a t i o n
Article 109
Article 108
Institutions' arrangements, processes and mechanisms
Internal capital adequacy assessment process
1. Competent authorities shall require institutions to meet
1. Competent authorities shall require every institution which
the obligations set out in Section II of this Chapter on an
is neither a subsidiary in the Member State where it is auth­
individual basis, unless competent authorities make use of the
orised and supervised, nor a parent undertaking, and every
derogation provided for in Article 7 of Regulation (EU)
institution not included in the consolidation pursuant to
No 575/2013.
Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, to meet the
obligations set out in Article 73 of this Directive on an indi­
vidual basis.
2. Competent authorities shall require the parent under­
takings and subsidiaries subject to this Directive to meet the
obligations set out in Section II of this Chapter on a
Competent authorities may waive the requirements set out in consolidated or sub-consolidated basis, to ensure that their
Article 73 of this Directive in regard to a credit institution in arrangements, processes and mechanisms required by Section
accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. II of this Chapter are consistent and well-integrated and that
any data and information relevant to the purpose of supervision
can be produced. In particular, they shall ensure that parent
undertakings and subsidiaries subject to this Directive
Where the competent authorities waive the application of own implement such arrangements, processes and mechanisms in
funds requirements on a consolidated basis provided for in their subsidiaries not subject to this Directive. Those arrange­
Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the requirements ments, processes and mechanisms shall also be consistent and
of Article 73 of this Directive shall apply on an individual basis. well-integrated and those subsidiaries shall also be able to
produce any data and information relevant to the purpose of
supervision.
2. Competent authorities shall require parent institutions in a
Member State, to the extent and in the manner prescribed in
3. Obligations resulting from Section II of this Chapter
Part One, Title II, Chapter 2, Sections 2 and 3 of Regulation
concerning subsidiary undertakings, not themselves subject to
(EU) No 575/2013 to meet the obligations set out in Article 73
this Directive, shall not apply if the EU parent institution or
of this Directive on a consolidated basis.
institutions controlled by an EU parent financial holding
company or EU parent mixed financial holding company, can
demonstrate to the competent authorities that the application of
Section II is unlawful under the laws of the third country where
3. Competent authorities shall require institutions controlled the subsidiary is established.
by a parent financial holding company or a parent mixed
financial holding company in a Member State, to the extent
and in the manner prescribed in Part One, Title II, Chapter 2,
Sections 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 to meet the Article 110
obligations set out in Article 73 of this Directive on the basis of
the consolidated situation of that financial holding company or Review and evaluation and supervisory measures
mixed financial holding company.
1. Competent authorities shall apply the review and
evaluation process referred to in Section III of this Chapter
and the supervisory measures referred to in Section IV of this
Chapter in accordance with the level of application of the
Where more than one institution is controlled by a parent requirements of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 set out in Part
financial holding company or a parent mixed financial One, Title II of that Regulation.
L 176/396 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. Where the competent authorities waive the application of 5. In particular cases, the competent authorities may, by
own funds requirements on a consolidated basis as provided for common agreement, waive the criteria referred to in paragraphs
in Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the 3 and 4 if their application would be inappropriate, taking into
requirements of Article 97 of this Directive shall apply to the account the institutions and the relative importance of their
supervision of investment firms on an individual basis. activities in different countries, and appoint a different
competent authority to exercise supervision on a consolidated
basis. In such cases, before taking their decision, the competent
authorities shall give the EU parent institution, EU parent
CHAPTER 3 financial holding company, EU parent mixed financial holding
company, or institution with the largest balance sheet total, as
Supervision on a consolidated basis
appropriate, an opportunity to state its opinion on that
S e c t i o n I decision.
P r i n c i p l e s f o r c o n d u c t i n g s u p e r v i s i o n o n a
c o n s o l i d a t e d b a s i s
6. The competent authorities shall notify the Commission
Article 111
and EBA of any agreement falling within paragraph 5.
Determination of the consolidating supervisor
1. Where a parent undertaking is a parent institution in a
Member State or an EU parent institution, supervision on a Article 112
consolidated basis shall be exercised by the competent auth­
orities that granted authorisation. Coordination of supervisory activities by the consolidating
supervisor
1. In addition to the obligations imposed by this Directive
and by Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the consolidating
2. Where the parent of an institution is a parent financial
supervisor shall carry out the following tasks:
holding company or parent mixed financial holding company in
a Member State or an EU parent financial holding company or
EU parent mixed financial holding company, supervision on a
consolidated basis shall be exercised by the competent auth­
(a) coordination of the gathering and dissemination of relevant
orities that granted authorisation.
or essential information in going concern and emergency
situations;
3. Where institutions authorised in two or more Member
States have as their parent the same parent financial holding
(b) planning and coordination of supervisory activities in going-
company, the same parent mixed financial holding company in
concern situations, including in relation to the activities
a Member State, the same EU parent financial holding company
referred to in Title VII, Chapter 3, in cooperation with the
or the same EU parent mixed financial holding company, super­
competent authorities involved;
vision on a consolidated basis shall be exercised by the
competent authorities of the institution authorised in the
Member State in which the financial holding company or
mixed financial holding company was set up. (c) planning and coordination of supervisory activities in
cooperation with the competent authorities involved, and
if necessary with ESCB central banks, in preparation for
and during emergency situations, including adverse devel­
Where the parent undertakings of institutions authorised in two opments in institutions or in financial markets using, where
or more Member States comprise more than one financial possible, existing channels of communication for facilitating
holding company or mixed financial holding company with crisis management.
head offices in different Member States and there is a credit
institution in each of those States, supervision on a consolidated
basis shall be exercised by the competent authority of the credit
institution with the largest balance sheet total. 2. Where the consolidating supervisor fails to carry out the
tasks referred to in paragraph 1 or where the competent auth­
orities do not cooperate with the consolidating supervisor to the
extent required in carrying out the tasks in paragraph 1, any of
4. Where more than one institution authorised in the Union the competent authorities concerned may refer the matter to
has as its parent the same financial holding company or mixed EBA and request its assistance under Article 19 of Regulation
financial holding company and none of those institutions has (EU) No 1093/2010.
been authorised in the Member State in which the financial
holding company or mixed financial holding company was
set up, supervision on a consolidated basis shall be exercised
by the competent authority that authorised the institution with EBA may also assist the competent authorities in the event of a
the largest balance sheet total, which shall be considered, for the disagreement concerning the coordination of supervisory
purposes of this Directive, as the institution controlled by an EU activities under this Article on its own initiative in accordance
parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial with the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) of that Regu­
holding company. lation.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/397
3. The planning and coordination of supervisory activities consolidating supervisor shall at the request of any of the other
referred to in paragraph 1(c) of this Article includes exceptional competent authorities concerned consult EBA. The consoli­
measures referred to in Article 117(1)(d) and Article 117(4)(b), dating supervisor may consult EBA on its own initiative.
the preparation of joint assessments, the implementation of
contingency plans and communication to the public.
3. In the absence of such a joint decision between the
Article 113 competent authorities within the time periods referred to in
paragraph 2, a decision on the application of Articles 73, 86
Joint decisions on institution-specific prudential and 97, Article 104(1)(a) and Article 105 shall be taken on a
requirements consolidated basis by the consolidating supervisor after duly
considering the risk assessment of subsidiaries performed by
1. The consolidating supervisor and the competent auth­
relevant competent authorities. If, at the end of the time
orities responsible for the supervision of subsidiaries of an EU
periods referred to in paragraph 2, any of the competent auth­
parent institution or an EU parent financial holding company or
orities concerned has referred the matter to EBA in accordance
EU parent mixed financial holding company in a Member State
with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the consoli­
shall do everything within their power to reach a joint decision:
dating supervisor shall defer its decision and await any decision
that EBA may take in accordance with Article 19(3) of that
Regulation, and shall take its decision in conformity with the
(a) on the application of Articles 73 and 97 to determine the decision of EBA. The time periods referred to in paragraph 2
adequacy of the consolidated level of own funds held by the shall be deemed the conciliation periods within the meaning of
group of institutions with respect to its financial situation Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. EBA shall take its decision
and risk profile and the required level of own funds for the within 1 month. The matter shall not be referred to EBA
application of Article 104(1)(a) to each entity within the after the end of the four month period or one-month period,
group of institutions and on a consolidated basis; as applicable, or after a joint decision has been reached.
(b) on measures to address any significant matters and material
The decision on the application of Articles 73, 86 and 97,
findings relating to liquidity supervision including relating
Article 104(1)(a) and Article 105 shall be taken by the
to the adequacy of the organisation and the treatment of
respective competent authorities responsible for supervision of
risks as required pursuant to Article 86 and relating to the
subsidiaries of an EU parent credit institution or a EU parent
need for institution-specific liquidity requirements in
financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial
accordance with Article 105 of this Directive.
holding company on an individual or sub-consolidated basis
after duly considering the views and reservations expressed by
the consolidating supervisor. If, at the end of any of the time
2. The joint decisions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be periods referred to in paragraph 2, any of the competent auth­
reached: orities concerned has referred the matter to EBA in accordance
with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the
competent authorities shall defer their decision and await any
decision that EBA shall take in accordance with Article 19(3) of
(a) for the purpose of paragraph 1(a), within four months after that Regulation, and shall take their decision in conformity with
submission by the consolidating supervisor of a report the decision of EBA. The time periods referred to in paragraph
containing the risk assessment of the group of institutions 2 shall be deemed the conciliation periods within the meaning
in accordance with Articles 73 and 97 and Article 104(1)(a) of that Regulation. EBA shall take its decision within 1 month.
to the other relevant competent authorities; The matter shall not be referred to EBA after the end of the
four-month or one-month period, as applicable, or after a joint
decision has been reached.
(b) for the purposes of paragraph 1(b), within one month after
submission by the consolidating supervisor of a report
containing the assessment of the liquidity risk profile of
the group of institutions in accordance with Articles 86 The decisions shall be set out in a document containing full
and 105. reasons and shall take into account the risk assessment, views
and reservations of the other competent authorities expressed
during the time periods referred to in paragraph 2. The
document shall be provided by the consolidating supervisor
The joint decisions shall also duly consider the risk assessment to all competent authorities concerned and to the EU parent
of subsidiaries performed by relevant competent authorities in institution.
accordance with Articles 73 and 97.
The joint decisions shall be set out in documents containing full Where EBA has been consulted, all the competent authorities
reasons which shall be provided to the EU parent institution by shall consider its advice, and explain any significant deviation
the consolidating supervisor. In the event of disagreement, the therefrom.
L 176/398 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. The joint decisions referred to in paragraph 1 and the Where possible, the competent authority and the authority
decisions taken by the competent authorities in the absence referred to in Article 58(4) shall use existing channels of
of a joint decision referred to in paragraph 3 shall be recognised communication.
as determinative and applied by the competent authorities in
the Member States concerned.
2. The consolidating supervisor shall, where it needs
information which has already been given to another
The joint decisions referred to in the paragraph 1 and any competent authority, contact that authority where possible in
decision taken in the absence of a joint decision in accordance order to prevent duplication of reporting to the various auth­
with paragraph 3, shall be updated on an annual basis or, in orities involved in supervision.
exceptional circumstances, where a competent authority
responsible for the supervision of subsidiaries of an EU parent
institution or, an EU parent financial holding company or EU
parent mixed financial holding company makes a written and
Article 115
fully reasoned request to the consolidating supervisor to update
the decision on the application of Article 104(1)(a) and Coordination and cooperation arrangements
Article 105. In the latter case, the update may be addressed
1. In order to facilitate and establish effective supervision, the
on a bilateral basis between the consolidating supervisor and
consolidating supervisor and the other competent authorities
the competent authority making the request.
shall have written coordination and cooperation arrangements
in place.
5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
to ensure uniform conditions of application of the joint
decision process referred to in this Article, with regard to the Under those arrangements additional tasks may be entrusted to
application of Articles 73, 86 and 97, Article 104(1)(a) and the consolidating supervisor and procedures for the decision-
Article 105 with a view to facilitating joint decisions. making process and for cooperation with other competent auth­
orities, may be specified.
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 1 July 2014. 2. The competent authorities responsible for authorising the
subsidiary of a parent undertaking which is an institution may,
by bilateral agreement, in accordance with Article 28 of Regu­
lation (EU) No 1093/2010, delegate their responsibility for
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the supervision to the competent authorities which authorised and
implementing technical standards referred to in the first supervise the parent undertaking so that they assume responsi­
subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation bility for supervising the subsidiary in accordance with this
(EU) No 1093/2010. Directive. EBA shall be kept informed of the existence and
content of such agreements. It shall forward such information
to the competent authorities of the other Member States and to
the European Banking Committee.
Article 114
Information requirements in emergency situations
Article 116
1. Where an emergency situation, including a situation as
described in Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 or Colleges of supervisors
a situation of adverse developments in markets, arises, which
potentially jeopardises the market liquidity and the stability of 1. The consolidating supervisor shall establish colleges of
the financial system in any of the Member State where entities supervisors to facilitate the exercise of the tasks referred to in
of a group have been authorised or where significant branches Articles 112 and 113 and Article 114(1) and subject to the
referred to in Article 51 are established, the consolidating confidentiality requirements of paragraph 2 of this Article and
supervisor shall, subject to Chapter 1, Section 2, and where to Union law, ensure appropriate coordination and cooperation
applicable Articles 54 and 58 of Directive 2004/39/EC, alert with relevant third-country supervisory authorities where appro­
as soon as is practicable, EBA and the authorities referred to priate.
in Article 58(4) and Article 59 and shall communicate all
information essential for the pursuance of their tasks. Those
obligations shall apply to all competent authorities.
EBA shall contribute to promoting and monitoring the efficient,
effective and consistent functioning of colleges of supervisors
referred to in this Article in accordance with Article 21 of
If an ESCB central bank becomes aware of a situation described Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. To that end, EBA shall
in the first subparagraph, it shall alert as soon as is practicable participate as appropriate and shall be considered to be a
the competent authorities referred to in Article 112, and EBA. competent authority for that purpose.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/399
Colleges of supervisors shall provide a framework for the Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
consolidating supervisor, EBA and the other competent auth­ technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
orities concerned to carry out the following tasks: accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) exchanging information between each other and with EBA
in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) 5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
No 1093/2010; in order to determine the operational functioning of the
colleges of supervisors.
(b) agreeing on voluntary entrustment of tasks and voluntary
delegation of responsibilities where appropriate; EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 31 December 2014.
(c) determining supervisory examination programmes referred
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
to in Article 99 based on a risk assessment of the group in
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
accordance with Article 97;
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(d) increasing the efficiency of supervision by removing
unnecessary duplication of supervisory requirements,
6. The competent authorities responsible for the supervision
including in relation to the information requests referred
of subsidiaries of an EU parent institution or an EU parent
to in Article 114 and Article 117(3);
financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial
holding company and the competent authorities of a host
Member State where significant branches as referred to in
(e) consistently applying the prudential requirements under this Article 51 are established, ESCB central banks as appropriate,
Directive and under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 across all and third countries' supervisory authorities where appropriate
entities within a group of institutions without prejudice to and subject to confidentiality requirements that are equivalent,
the options and discretions available in Union law; in the opinion of all competent authorities, to the requirements
under Chapter 1, Section II of this Directive and where appli­
cable, Articles 54 and 58 of Directive 2004/39/EC, may
participate in colleges of supervisors.
(f) applying Article 112(1)(c) taking into account the work of
other forums that may be established in that area.
7. The consolidating supervisor shall chair the meetings of
the college and shall decide which competent authorities
2. The competent authorities participating in the colleges of participate in a meeting or in an activity of the college. The
supervisors and EBA shall cooperate closely. The confidentiality consolidating supervisor shall keep all members of the college
requirements under Chapter 1, Section II of this Directive, and fully informed, in advance, of the organisation of such meetings,
Articles 54 and 58 of Directive 2004/39/EC shall not prevent the main issues to be discussed and the activities to be
the competent authorities from exchanging confidential considered. The consolidating supervisor shall also keep all
information within colleges of supervisors. The establishment the members of the college fully informed, in a timely
and functioning of colleges of supervisors shall not affect the manner, of the actions taken in those meetings or the
rights and responsibilities of the competent authorities under measures carried out.
this Directive and under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
8. The decision of the consolidating supervisor shall take
3. The establishment and functioning of the colleges shall be account of the relevance of the supervisory activity to be
based on written arrangements referred to in Article 115, planned or coordinated for those authorities, in particular the
determined after consulting competent authorities concerned potential impact on the stability of the financial system in the
by the consolidating supervisor. Member States concerned as referred to in Article 7 and the
obligations referred to in Article 51(2).
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards in
order to specify general conditions of functioning of the 9. The consolidating supervisor, subject to the confidentiality
colleges of supervisors. requirements under Chapter 1, Section II, of this Directive, and
where applicable, Articles 54 and 58 of Directive 2004/39/EC,
shall inform EBA of the activities of the college of supervisors,
including in emergency situations, and communicate to EBA all
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to information that is of particular relevance for the purposes of
the Commission by 31 December 2014. supervisory convergence.
L 176/400 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
In the event of a disagreement between competent authorities the group, the parent undertakings, in accordance with
on the functioning of supervisory colleges, any of the Article 14(3), Article 74(1) and Article 109(2), and of the
competent authorities concerned may refer the matter to EBA competent authorities of the regulated entities in the group;
and request its assistance in accordance with Article 19 of
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(b) procedures for the collection of information from the insti­
tutions in a group, and the checking of that information;
EBA may also assist the competent authorities in the event of a
disagreement concerning the functioning of supervisory colleges
under this Article on its own initiative in accordance with the (c) adverse developments in institutions or in other entities of a
second subparagraph of Article 19(1) of that Regulation. group, which could seriously affect the institutions;
Article 117 (d) significant penalties and exceptional measures taken by
competent authorities in accordance with this Directive,
Cooperation obligations including the imposition of a specific own fund requirement
under Article 104 and the imposition of any limitation on
1. The competent authorities shall cooperate closely with
the use of the Advanced Measurement Approach for the
each other. They shall provide one another with any
calculation of the own funds requirements under
information which is essential or relevant for the exercise of
Article 312(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
the other authorities' supervisory tasks under this Directive and
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. In that regard, the competent
authorities shall communicate on request all relevant
information and shall communicate on their own initiative all 2. The competent authorities may refer to EBA any of the
essential information. following situations:
(a) where a competent authority has not communicated
The competent authorities shall cooperate with EBA for the
essential information;
purposes of this Directive and Regulation (EU) No 575/2013,
in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(b) where a request for cooperation, in particular to exchange
relevant information, has been rejected or has not been
The competent authorities shall provide EBA with all
acted upon within a reasonable time.
information necessary to carry out its duties under this
Directive, under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, and under
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, in accordance with Article 35
of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010. Without prejudice to Article 258 TFEU, EBA may act in
accordance with the powers conferred on it under Article 19
of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
Information referred to in the first subparagraph shall be
regarded as essential if it could materially influence the
EBA may also assist the competent authorities in developing
assessment of the financial soundness of an institution or
consistent cooperation practices on its own initiative in
financial institution in another Member State.
accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 19(1) of
that Regulation.
In particular, consolidating supervisors of EU parent institutions
and institutions controlled by EU parent financial holding
3. The competent authorities responsible for the supervision
companies or EU parent mixed financial holding companies
of institutions controlled by an EU parent institution shall
shall provide the competent authorities in other Member
where possible contact the consolidating supervisor when they
States who supervise subsidiaries of those parent undertakings
need information regarding the implementation of approaches
with all relevant information. In determining the extent of
and methodologies set out in this Directive and in Regulation
relevant information, the importance of those subsidiaries
(EU) No 575/2013 that may already be available to the consoli­
within the financial system in those Member States shall be
dating supervisor.
taken into account.
4. The competent authorities concerned shall, before taking a
The essential information referred to in the first subparagraph decision, consult each other with regard to the following items,
shall include, in particular, the following items: where such a decision are of importance for other competent
authorities' supervisory tasks:
(a) identification of the group's legal structure and the
governance structure including organisational structure, (a) changes in the shareholder, organisational or management
covering all regulated entities, non-regulated entities, non- structure of credit institutions in a group, which require the
regulated subsidiaries and significant branches belonging to approval or authorisation of competent authorities; and
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/401
(b) significant penalties or exceptional measures taken by 3. Member States shall enable their competent authorities
competent authorities, including the imposition of a responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated basis
specific own funds requirement under Article 104 and the to ask the subsidiaries of an institution, a financial holding
imposition of any limitation on the use of the advances company or mixed financial holding company, which are not
measurement approaches for the calculation of the own included within the scope of supervision on a consolidated basis
funds requirements under Article 312(2) of Regulation for the information referred to in Article 122. In such a case,
(EU) No 575/2013. the procedures for transmitting and checking the information
set out in that Article shall apply.
For the purposes of point (b), the consolidating supervisor shall
always be consulted.
Article 120
Supervision of mixed financial holding companies
However, a competent authority may decide not to consult
1. Where a mixed financial holding company is subject to
other competent authorities in cases of urgency or where
equivalent provisions under this Directive and under Directive
such consultation could jeopardise the effectiveness of its
2002/87/EC, in particular in terms of risk-based supervision, the
decision. In such cases, the competent authority shall, without
consolidating supervisor may, after consulting the other
delay, inform the other competent authorities after taking its
competent authorities responsible for the supervision of subsidi­
decision.
aries, apply only Directive 2002/87/EC to that mixed financial
holding company.
Article 118
Checking information concerning entities in other Member 2. Where a mixed financial holding company is subject to
States equivalent provisions under this Directive and under Directive
2009/138/EC, in particular in terms of risk-based supervision,
Where, in applying this Directive and Regulation (EU)
the consolidating supervisor may, in agreement with the group
No 575/2013, the competent authorities of one Member
supervisor in the insurance sector, apply to that mixed financial
State wish in specific cases to check the information concerning
holding company only the provisions of this Directive relating
an institution, a financial holding company, a mixed financial
to the most significant financial sector as defined in Article 3(2)
holding company, a financial institution, an ancillary services
of Directive 2002/87/EC.
undertaking, a mixed-activity holding company, a subsidiary as
referred to in Article 125 or a subsidiary as referred to in
Article 119(3), situated in another Member State, they shall
ask the competent authorities of that other Member State to
3. The consolidating supervisor shall inform EBA and EIOPA
have that check carried out. The authorities which receive such
of the decisions taken under paragraphs 1 and 2.
a request shall, within the framework of their competence, act
upon it either by carrying out the check themselves, by allowing
the authorities who made the request to carry it out, or by
allowing an auditor or expert to carry it out. The competent 4. EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall, through the Joint
authority which made the request may, if it so wishes, Committee referred to in Article 54 of Regulations (EU)
participate in the check where it does not carry out the check No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010,
itself. develop guidelines aiming to converge supervisory practices and
shall, within three years of the adoption of those guidelines,
develop draft regulatory technical standards for the same
S e c t i o n I I purpose.
F i n a n c i a l h o l d i n g c o m p a n i e s , m i x e d
f i n a n c i a l h o l d i n g c o m p a n i e s a n d
m i x e d - a c t i v i t y h o l d i n g c o m p a n i e s Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Article 119
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulations (EU)
Inclusion of holding companies in consolidated supervision No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010.
1. Member States shall adopt any measures necessary, where
appropriate, to include financial holding companies and mixed
financial holding companies in consolidated supervision. Article 121
Qualification of directors
2. Where a subsidiary that is an institution is not included in Member States shall require that the members of the
supervision on a consolidated basis under one of the cases management body of a financial holding company or mixed
provided for in Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, financial holding company be of sufficiently good repute and
the competent authorities of the Member State in which that possess sufficient knowledge, skills and experience as referred to
subsidiary is situated may ask the parent undertaking for in Article 91(1) to perform those duties, taking into account the
information which may facilitate their supervision of that specific role of a financial holding company or mixed financial
subsidiary. holding company.
L 176/402 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 122 or subsidiaries as referred to in Article 119(3), of any
information which would be relevant for the purposes of super­
Requests for information and inspections
vision in accordance with Article 110 and Chapter 3.
1. Pending further coordination of consolidation methods,
Member States shall provide that, where the parent undertaking
of one or more institutions is a mixed-activity holding
company, the competent authorities responsible for the auth­ 2. Where a parent undertaking and any of its subsidiaries
orisation and supervision of those institutions shall, by that are institutions are situated in different Member States,
approaching the mixed-activity holding company and its the competent authorities of each Member State shall
subsidiaries either directly or via subsidiaries that are institu­ communicate to each other all relevant information which
tions, require them to supply any information which would may allow or aid the exercise of supervision on a consolidated
be relevant for the purpose of supervising those subsidiaries. basis.
Where the competent authorities of the Member State in which
2. Member States shall provide that their competent auth­
a parent undertaking is situated do not themselves exercise
orities may carry out, or have carried out by external inspectors,
supervision on a consolidated basis pursuant to Article 111,
on-the-spot inspections to check information received from
they may be invited by the competent authorities responsible
mixed-activity holding companies and their subsidiaries. If the
for exercising such supervision to ask the parent undertaking
mixed-activity holding company or one of its subsidiaries is an
for any information which would be relevant for the purposes
insurance undertaking, the procedure set out in Article 125 may
of supervision on a consolidated basis and to transmit it to
also be used. If a mixed-activity holding company or one of its
those authorities.
subsidiaries is situated in a Member State other than that in
which a subsidiary that is an institution is situated, on-the-spot
check of information shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedure set out in Article 118.
3. Member States shall authorise the exchange between their
competent authorities of the information referred to in
paragraph 2, on the understanding that, in the case of
financial holding companies, mixed financial holding
Article 123 companies, financial institutions or ancillary services under­
takings, the collection or possession of information shall not
Supervision
imply that the competent authorities are required to play a
1. Without prejudice to Part Four of Regulation (EU) supervisory role in relation to those institutions or undertakings
No 575/2013, Member States shall provide that, where the standing alone.
parent undertaking of one or more institutions is a mixed-
activity holding company, the competent authorities responsible
for the supervision of those institutions shall exercise general
supervision over transactions between the institution and the Similarly, Member States shall authorise their competent auth­
mixed-activity holding company and its subsidiaries. orities to exchange the information referred to in Article 122
on the understanding that the collection or possession of
information does not imply that the competent authorities
play a supervisory role in relation to the mixed-activity
holding company and those of its subsidiaries which are not
2. Competent authorities shall require institutions to have in
credit institutions, or to subsidiaries as referred to in
place adequate risk management processes and internal control
Article 119(3).
mechanisms, including sound reporting and accounting
procedures in order to identify, measure, monitor and control
transactions with their parent mixed-activity holding company
and its subsidiaries appropriately. Competent authorities shall
Article 125
require the reporting by the institution of any significant trans­
action with those entities other than the one referred to in
Cooperation
Article 394 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Those procedures
and significant transactions shall be subject to overview by the 1. Where an institution, financial holding company, mixed
competent authorities. financial holding company or a mixed-activity holding company
controls one or more subsidiaries which are insurance
companies or other undertakings providing investment
services which are subject to authorisation, the competent auth­
orities and the authorities entrusted with the public task of
Article 124 supervising insurance undertakings or those other undertakings
providing investment services shall cooperate closely. Without
Exchange of information
prejudice to their respective responsibilities, those authorities
1. Member States shall ensure that there are no legal shall provide one another with any information likely to
impediments preventing the exchange, as between undertakings simplify their task and to allow supervision of the activity
included within the scope of supervision on a consolidated and overall financial situation of the undertakings they
basis, mixed-activity holding companies and their subsidiaries, supervise.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/403
2. Information received, within the framework of supervision arrangements applied by such competent authorities. EBA shall
on a consolidated basis, and in particular any exchange of assist the Commission and the European Banking Committee in
information between competent authorities which is provided carrying out those tasks, including as to assessing whether such
for in this Directive, shall be subject to professional secrecy guidance should be updated.
requirements at least equivalent to those referred to in
Article 53(1) of this Directive for credit institutions or under
Directive 2004/39/EC for investment firms.
The competent authority carrying out the assessment referred to
in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall take into account
any such guidance. For that purpose, the competent authority
shall consult EBA before adopting a decision.
3. The competent authorities responsible for supervision on
a consolidated basis shall establish lists of the financial holding
companies or mixed financial holding companies referred to in
Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. Those lists shall be 3. In the absence of such equivalent supervision, Member
communicated to the competent authorities of the other States shall apply this Directive and Regulation (EU)
Member States, to EBA and to the Commission. No 575/2013 to the institution mutatis mutandis or shall
allow their competent authorities to apply other appropriate
supervisory techniques which achieve the objectives of super­
vision on a consolidated basis of institutions.
Article 126
Penalties
Those supervisory techniques shall, after consulting the other
In accordance with Chapter 1, Section IV of this Title, Member
competent authorities involved, be agreed upon by the
States shall ensure that administrative penalties or other admin­
competent authority which would be responsible for
istrative measures aiming to end observed breaches or the
consolidated supervision.
causes of such breaches may be imposed on financial holding
companies, mixed financial holding companies, and mixed-
activity holding companies, or their effective managers, that
breach laws, regulations or administrative provisions trans­ Competent authorities may in particular require the estab­
posing this Chapter. lishment of a financial holding company or mixed financial
holding company which has its head office in the Union, and
apply the provisions on consolidated supervision to the
consolidated position of that financial holding company or
Article 127
the consolidated position of the institutions of that mixed
financial holding company.
Assessment of equivalence of third countries' consolidated
supervision
1. Where an institution, the parent undertaking of which is
The supervisory techniques shall be designed to achieve the
an institution or a financial holding company or mixed financial
objectives of consolidated supervision as set out in this
holding company, the head office of which is in a third country,
Chapter and shall be notified to the other competent authorities
is not subject to consolidated supervision under Articles 111,
involved, to EBA and to the Commission.
the competent authorities shall assess whether the institution is
subject to consolidated supervision by a third-country super­
visory authority which is equivalent to that governed by the
principles set out in this Directive and the requirements of CHAPTER 4
Part One, Title II, Chapter 2 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
Capital Buffers
S e c t i o n I
The assessment shall be carried out by the competent authority B u f f e r s
which would be responsible for consolidated supervision if
Article 128
paragraph 3 were to apply, at the request of the parent under­
taking or of any of the regulated entities authorised in the Definitions
Union or on its own initiative. That competent authority shall
consult the other competent authorities involved. For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
2. The Commission may request the European Banking
(1) 'capital conservation buffer' means the own funds that an
Committee to give general guidance as to whether the
institution is required to maintain in accordance with
consolidated supervision arrangements of supervisory auth­
Article 129;
orities in third countries are likely to achieve the objectives of
consolidated supervision as set out in this Chapter, in relation
to institutions the parent undertaking of which has its head
office in a third country. The European Banking Committee (2) 'institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer' means the
shall keep any such guidance under review and take into own funds that an institution is required to maintain in
account any changes to the consolidated supervision accordance with Article 130;
L 176/404 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(3) 'G-SII buffer' means the own funds that are required to be 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, a Member State
maintained in accordance with Article 131(4); may exempt small and medium-sized investment firms from the
requirements set out in that paragraph if such an exemption
does not threaten the stability of the financial system of that
(4) 'O-SII buffer' means the own funds that may be required to Member State.
be maintained in accordance with Article 131(5);
(5) 'systemic risk buffer' means the own funds that an insti­ The decision on the application of such an exemption shall be
tution is or may be required to maintain in accordance with fully reasoned, shall include an explanation as to why the
Article 133; exemption does not threaten the stability of the financial
system of the Member State and shall contain the exact defi­
nition of the small and medium-sized investment firms which
(6) 'combined buffer requirement' means the total Common are exempt.
Equity Tier 1 capital required to meet the requirement for
the capital conservation buffer extended by the following, as
applicable:
Member States which decide to apply such an exemption shall
notify the Commission, the ESRB, EBA and the competent auth­
(a) an institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer; orities of the Member States concerned accordingly.
(b) a G-SII buffer;
3. For the purpose of paragraph 2, the Member State shall
designate the authority in charge of the application of this
(c) an O-SII buffer; Article. That authority shall be the competent authority or the
designated authority.
(d) a systemic risk buffer;
4. For the purpose of paragraph 2, investment firms shall be
(7) 'countercyclical buffer rate' means the rate that institutions categorised as small or medium-sized in accordance with
must apply in order to calculate their institution-specific Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003
countercyclical capital buffer, and that is set in accordance concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized
with Article 136, Article 137 or by a relevant third-country enterprises ( 1 ).
authority, as the case may be;
(8) 'domestically authorised institution' means an institution 5. Institutions shall not use Common Equity Tier 1 capital
that has been authorised in the Member State for which a that is maintained to meet the requirement under paragraph 1
particular designated authority is responsible for setting the of this Article to meet any requirements imposed under
countercyclical buffer rate; Article 104.
(9) 'buffer guide' means a benchmark buffer rate calculated in
accordance with Article 135(1). 6. Where an institution fails to meet fully the requirement
under paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall be subject to the
restrictions on distributions set out in Article 141(2) and (3).
This Chapter shall not apply to investment firms that are not
authorised to provide the investment services listed in points 3
and 6 of Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC.
Article 130
Requirement to maintain an institution-specific
Article 129
countercyclical capital buffer
Requirement to maintain a capital conservation buffer
1. Member States shall require institutions to maintain an
1. Member States shall require institutions to maintain in institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer equivalent to
addition to the Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained to their total risk exposure amount calculated in accordance with
meet the own funds requirement imposed by Article 92 of Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 multiplied by the
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, a capital conservation buffer weighted average of the countercyclical buffer rates calculated in
of Common Equity Tier 1 capital equal to 2,5 % of their total accordance with Article 140 of this Directive on an individual
risk exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3) and consolidated basis, as applicable in accordance with Part
of that Regulation on an individual and consolidated basis, as One, Title II of that Regulation.
applicable in accordance with Part One, Title II of that Regu­
lation. ( 1 ) OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/405
2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, a Member State an institution. G-SIIs shall not be an institution that is a
may exempt small and medium-sized investment firms from the subsidiary of an EU parent institution, of an EU parent
requirements set out in that paragraph if such an exemption financial holding company or of an EU parent mixed financial
does not threaten the stability of the financial system of that holding company. O-SIIs can either be an EU parent institution,
Member State. an EU parent financial holding company, an EU parent mixed
financial holding company or an institution.
The decision on the application of such an exemption shall be 2. The identification methodology for G-SIIs shall be based
fully reasoned, shall include an explanation as to why the on the following categories:
exemption does not threaten the stability of the financial
system of the Member State and shall contain the exact defi­
nition of small and medium-sized investment firms which are (a) size of the group;
exempt.
(b) interconnectedness of the group with the financial system;
Member States which decide to apply such an exemption shall
notify the Commission, the ESRB, EBA and the competent auth­
(c) substitutability of the services or of the financial infra­
orities of the Member States concerned accordingly.
structure provided by the group;
(d) complexity of the group;
3. For the purpose of paragraph 2, the Member State shall
designate the authority in charge of the application of this
Article. That authority shall be the competent authority or the
(e) cross-border activity of the group, including cross border
designated authority.
activity between Member States and between a Member
State and a third country.
4. For the purpose of paragraph 2, investment firms shall be
Each category shall receive an equal weighting and shall consist
categorised as small and medium-sized in accordance with
of quantifiable indicators.
Recommendation 2003/361/EC.
The methodology shall produce an overall score for each entity
as referred to in paragraph 1 assessed, which allows G-SIIs to be
5. Institutions shall meet the requirement imposed by
identified and allocated into a sub-category as described in
paragraph 1 with Common Equity Tier 1 capital, which shall
paragraph 9.
be additional to any Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained
to meet the own funds requirement imposed by Article 92 of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the requirement to maintain a
capital conservation buffer under Article 129 of this Directive 3. O-SIIs shall be identified in accordance with paragraph 1.
and any requirement imposed under Article 104 of this Systemic importance shall be assessed on the basis of at least
Directive. any of the following criteria:
(a) size;
6. Where an institution fails to meet fully the requirement
under paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall be subject to the
restrictions on distributions set out in Article 141(2) and (3). (b) importance for the economy of the Union or of the relevant
Member State;
Article 131 (c) significance of cross-border activities;
Global and other systemically important institutions
1. Member States shall designate the authority in charge of (d) interconnectedness of the institution or group with the
identifying, on a consolidated basis, global systemically financial system.
important institutions (G-SIIs), and, on an individual, sub-
consolidated or consolidated basis, as applicable, other system­
ically important institutions (O-SIIs), which have been auth­ EBA, after consulting the ESRB, shall publish guidelines by
orised within their jurisdiction. That authority shall be the 1 January 2015 on the criteria to determine the conditions of
competent authority or the designated authority. Member application of this paragraph in relation to the assessment of O-
States may designate more than one authority. G-SIIs shall be SIIs. Those guidelines shall take into account international
an EU parent institution, an EU parent financial holding frameworks for domestic systemically important institutions
company, an EU parent mixed financial holding company or and Union and national specificities.
L 176/406 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Each G-SII shall, on a consolidated basis, maintain a G-SII buffer on a consolidated basis, the buffer that applies at indi­
buffer which shall correspond to the sub-category to which the vidual or sub-consolidated level for the O-SII shall not exceed
G-SII is allocated. That buffer shall consist of and shall be the higher of:
supplementary to Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
(a) 1 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated in
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU)
5. The competent authority or designated authority may No 575/2013; and
require each O-SII, on a consolidated or sub-consolidated or
individual basis, as applicable, to maintain an O-SII buffer of
up to 2 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated in
(b) the G-SII or O-SII buffer rate applicable to the group at
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No
consolidated level.
575/2013, taking into account the criteria for the identification
of the O-SII. That buffer shall consist of and shall be supple­
mentary to Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
9. There shall be at least five subcategories of G-SIIs. The
lowest boundary and the boundaries between each subcategory
shall be determined by the scores under the identification
methodology. The cut-off scores between adjacent sub-
6. When requiring an O-SII buffer to be maintained the
categories shall be defined clearly and shall adhere to the
competent authority or the designated authority shall comply
principle that there is a constant linear increase of systemic
with the following:
significance, between each sub-category resulting in a linear
increase in the requirement of additional Common Equity Tier
1 capital, with the exception of the highest sub-category. For
the purposes of this paragraph, systemic significance is the
(a) the O-SII buffer must not entail disproportionate adverse expected impact exerted by the G-SII's distress on the global
effects on the whole or parts of the financial system of financial market. The lowest sub-category shall be assigned a
other Member States or of the Union as a whole forming G-SII buffer of 1 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated
or creating an obstacle to the functioning of the internal in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No
market; 575/2013 and the buffer assigned to each sub-category shall
increase in gradients of 0,5 % of the total risk exposure amount
calculated in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013 up to and including the fourth sub-category. The
(b) the O-SII buffer must be reviewed by the competent highest sub-category of the G-SII buffer shall be subject to a
authority or the designated authority at least annually. buffer of 3,5 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated in
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
7. Before setting or resetting an O-SII buffer, the competent 10. Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 9, the competent
authority or the designated authority shall notify the authority or the designated authority may, in the exercise of
Commission, the ESRB, EBA, and the competent and designated sound supervisory judgment:
authorities of the Member States concerned one month before
the publication of the decision referred to in paragraph 5. That
notification shall describe in detail: (a) re- allocate a G-SII from a lower sub-category to a higher
sub-category;
(a) the justification for why the O-SII buffer is considered likely (b) allocate an entity as referred to in paragraph 1 that has an
to be effective and proportionate to mitigate the risk; overall score that is lower than the cut-off score of the
lowest sub-category to that sub-category or to a higher
sub-category, thereby designating it as a G-SII.
(b) an assessment of the likely positive or negative impact of
the O-SII buffer on the internal market, based on 11. Where the competent authority or the designated
information which is available to the Member State; authority takes a decision in accordance with paragraph 10(b),
it shall notify EBA accordingly, providing reasons.
(c) the O-SII buffer rate that the Member State wishes to set. 12. The competent authority or the designated authority
shall notify the names of the G-SIIs and O-SIIs and the
respective sub-category to which each G-SII is allocated, to
the Commission, the ESRB and EBA, and shall disclose their
8. Without prejudice to Article 133 and paragraph 5 of this names to the public. The competent authorities or designated
Article, where an O-SII is a subsidiary of either a G-SII or an O- authorities shall disclose to the public the sub-category to which
SII which is an EU parent institution and subject to an O-SII each G-SII is allocated.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/407
The competent authority or the designated authority shall than the sum of the capital conservation buffer, the counter­
review annually the identification of G-SIIs and O-SIIs and the cyclical capital buffer, and the sum of the O-SII buffer and
G-SII allocation into the respective sub-categories and report the systemic risk buffer applicable to it on an individual basis.
result to the systemically important institution concerned, to the
Commission, the ESRB and EBA and disclose the updated list of
identified systemically important institutions to the public and
18. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
shall disclose to the public the sub-category into which each
specify, for the purposes of this Article, the methodology in
identified G-SII is allocated.
accordance with which the competent authority or the
designated authority shall identify an EU parent institution or
EU parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed
financial holding company as a G-SII and to specify the
13. Systemically important institutions shall not use
methodology for the definition of the sub-categories and the
Common Equity Tier 1 capital that is maintained to meet the
allocation of G-SIIs in sub-categories based on their systemic
requirements under paragraphs 4 and 5 to meet any
significance, taking into account any internationally agreed stan­
requirements imposed under Article 92 of Regulation (EU)
dards.
No 575/2013 and Articles 129 and 130 of this Directive and
any requirements imposed under Articles 102 and 104 of this
Directive.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 30 June 2014.
14. Where a group, on a consolidated basis, is subject to the
following, the higher buffer shall apply in each case:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first and second subpara­
graphs in accordance with Articles 10 to14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) a G-SII buffer and an O-SII buffer;
Article 132
(b) a G-SII buffer, an O-SII buffer and a systemic risk buffer in
Reporting
accordance with Article 133.
1. The Commission shall, by 31 December 2015, submit a
report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the
basis of international developments and EBA opinion on the
Where an institution, on an individual or sub-consolidated basis possibility of extending the framework for G-SIIs to additional
is subject to an O-SII buffer and a systemic risk buffer in types of systemically important institutions within the Union,
accordance with Article 133, the higher of the two shall apply. accompanied by a legislative proposal where appropriate.
2. The Commission shall, by 31 December 2016, after
15. Notwithstanding paragraph 14, where the systemic risk
consulting the ESRB and EBA, submit a report to the
buffer applies to all exposures located in the Member State that
European Parliament and to the Council on whether the
sets that buffer to address the macroprudential risk of that
provisions relating to G-SIIs as set out in Article 131 should
Member State, but does not apply to exposures outside the
be amended, accompanied by a legislative proposal where
Member State, that systemic risk buffer shall be cumulative
appropriate. Any such proposal shall take due account of inter­
with the O-SII or G-SII buffer that is applied in accordance
national regulatory developments and shall review, where
with this Article.
appropriate, the process of allocating institution-specific O-SII
buffers within a group taking into consideration any possible
undue impact on the implementation of structural separation
within Member States.
16. Where paragraph 14 applies and an institution is part of
a group or a sub-group to which a G-SII or an O-SII belongs,
this shall never imply that that institution is, on an individual
basis, subject to a combined buffer requirement that is lower Article 133
than the sum of the capital conservation buffer, the counter­
Requirement to maintain a systemic risk buffer
cyclical capital buffer, and the higher of the O-SII buffer and
systemic risk buffer applicable to it on an individual basis. 1. Each Member State may introduce a systemic risk buffer
of Common Equity Tier 1 capital for the financial sector or one
or more subsets of that sector, in order to prevent and mitigate
long term non-cyclical systemic or macroprudential risks not
17. Where paragraph 15 applies and an institution is part of covered by Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, in the meaning of a
a group or a sub-group to which a G-SII or an O-SII belongs, risk of disruption in the financial system with the potential to
this shall never imply that that institution is, on an individual have serious negative consequences to the financial system and
basis, subject to a combined buffer requirement that is lower the real economy in a specific Member State.
L 176/408 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. For the purpose of paragraph 1, the Member State shall sum of the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical
designate the authority in charge of setting the systemic risk capital buffer and the sum of the O-SII buffer and systemic
buffer and of identifying the sets of institutions to which it risk buffer applicable to it on an individual basis.
applies. This authority shall be the competent authority or the
designated authority.
8. The systemic risk buffer may apply to exposures located
in the Member State that sets that buffer and may also apply to
exposures in third countries. The systemic risk buffer may also
3. For the purpose of paragraph 1, institutions may be
apply to exposures located in other Member States, subject to
required to maintain, in addition to the Common Equity Tier
paragraphs 15 and 18.
1 capital maintained to meet the own funds requirement
imposed by Article 92 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, a
systemic risk buffer of Common Equity Tier 1 capital of at
least 1 % based on the exposures to which the systemic risk 9. The systemic risk buffer shall apply to all institutions, or
buffer applies in accordance with paragraph 8 of this Article, on one or more subsets of those institutions, for which the auth­
an individual, consolidated, or sub-consolidated basis, as orities of the Member State concerned are competent in
applicable in accordance with Part One, Title II of that Regu­ accordance with this Directive and shall be set in gradual or
lation. The relevant competent or designated authority may accelerated steps of adjustment of 0,5 percentage point.
require institutions to maintain the systemic risk buffer on an Different requirements may be introduced for different subsets
individual and on a consolidated level. of the sector.
10. When requiring a systemic risk buffer to be maintained
4. Institutions shall not use Common Equity Tier 1 capital
the competent authority or the designated authority shall
that is maintained to meet the requirement under paragraph 3
comply with the following:
to meet any requirements imposed under Article 92 of Regu­
lation (EU) No 575/2013 and Articles 129 and 130 of this
Directive and any requirements imposed under Articles 102
and 104 of this Directive. Where a group which has been
(a) the systemic risk buffer must not entail disproportionate
identified as a systemically important institution which is
adverse effects on the whole or parts of the financial
subject to a G-SII buffer or an O-SII buffer on a consolidated
system of other Member States or of the Union as a
basis in accordance with Article 131 is also subject to a
whole forming or creating an obstacle to the functioning
systemic risk buffer on a consolidated basis in accordance
of the internal market;
with this Article, the higher of the buffers shall apply. Where
an institution, on an individual or sub-consolidated basis, is
subject to an O-SII buffer in accordance with Article 131 and
a systemic risk buffer in accordance with this Article, the higher (b) the systemic risk buffer must be reviewed by the competent
of the two shall apply. authority or the designated authority at least every second
year.
5. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, where the systemic risk
11. Before setting or resetting a systemic risk buffer rate of
buffer applies to all exposures located in the Member State
up to 3 %, the competent authority or the designated authority
that sets that buffer to address the macroprudential risk of
shall notify the Commission, the ESRB, EBA and the competent
that Member State, but does not apply to exposures outside
and designated authorities of the Member States concerned one
the Member State, that systemic risk buffer shall be cumulative
month before the publication of the decision referred to in
with the O-SII or G-SII buffer that is applied in accordance with
paragraph 16. If the buffer applies to exposures located in
Article 131.
third countries the competent authority or the designated
authority shall also notify the supervisory authorities of those
third-countries. That notification shall describe in detail:
6. Where paragraph 4 applies and an institution is part of a
group or a sub-group to which a G-SII or an O-SII belongs, this
shall never imply that that institution is, on an individual basis, (a) the systemic or macroprudential risk in the Member State;
subject to a combined buffer requirement that is lower than the
sum of the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical
capital buffer, and the higher of the O-SII buffer and systemic
(b) the reasons why the dimension of the systemic or macro­
risk buffer applicable to it on an individual basis.
prudential risks threatens the stability of the financial system
at national level justifying the systemic risk buffer rate;
7. Where paragraph 5 applies and an institution is part of a
group or a sub-group to which a G-SII or an O-SII belongs, this (c) the justification for why the systemic risk buffer is
shall never imply that that institution is, on an individual basis, considered likely to be effective and proportionate to
subject to a combined buffer requirement that is lower than the mitigate the risk;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/409
(d) an assessment of the likely positive or negative impact of the procedures set out in paragraph 11. When setting or
the systemic risk buffer on the internal market, based on resetting a systemic risk buffer rate above 5 % the procedures
information which is available to the Member State; set out in paragraph 12 shall be complied with.
(e) the justification for why none of the existing measures in 14. Where the systemic risk buffer rate is to be set between
this Directive or in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, excluding 3 % and 5 % in accordance with paragraph 13, the competent
Articles 458 and 459 of that Regulation, alone or in authority or the designated authority of the Member State that
combination, will be sufficient to address the identified sets that buffer shall always notify the Commission thereof and
macroprudential or systemic risk taking into account the shall await the opinion of the Commission before adopting the
relative effectiveness of those measures; measures in question.
(f) the systemic risk buffer rate that the Member State wishes
Where the opinion of the Commission is negative, the
to require.
competent authority or the designated authority of the
Member State that sets that buffer shall comply with that
opinion or give reasons for not so doing.
12. Before setting or resetting a systemic risk buffer rate of
above 3 %, the competent authority or the designated authority
shall notify the Commission, the ESRB, EBA and the competent
Where one subset of the financial sector is a subsidiary whose
and designated authorities of the Member States concerned. If
parent is established in another Member State, the competent
the buffer applies to exposures located in third-countries the
authority or the designated authority shall notify the authorities
competent authority or the designated authority shall also
of that Member State, the Commission and the ESRB. Within
notify the supervisory authorities of those third-countries.
one month of the notification, the Commission and the ESRB
That notification shall describe in detail:
shall issue a recommendation on the measures taken in
accordance with this paragraph. Where the authorities
disagree and in the case of a negative recommendation of
(a) the systemic or macroprudential risk in the Member State; both the Commission and the ESRB, the competent authority
or the designated authority may refer the matter to EBA and
request its assistance in accordance with Article 19 of Regu­
lation (EU) No 1093/2010. The decision to set the buffer for
(b) the reasons why the dimension of the systemic or macro­
those exposures shall be suspended until EBA has taken a
prudential risks threatens the stability of the financial system
decision.
at national level justifying the systemic risk buffer rate;
(c) the justification for why the systemic risk buffer is 15. Within one month of the notification referred to in
considered likely to be effective and proportionate to paragraph 12, the ESRB shall provide the Commission with
mitigate the risk; an opinion as to whether the systemic risk buffer is deemed
appropriate. EBA may also provide the Commission with its
opinion on the buffer in accordance with Article 34(1) of Regu­
lation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(d) an assessment of the likely positive or negative impact of
the systemic risk buffer on the internal market, based on
information which is available to the Member State;
Within two months of notification, the Commission, taking
into account the assessment of the ESRB and EBA, if relevant,
and if it is satisfied that the systemic risk buffer does not entail
(e) the justification for why none of the existing measures in
disproportionate adverse effects on the whole or parts of the
this Directive or in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, excluding
financial system of other Member States or of the Union as a
Articles 458 and 459 of that Regulation, alone or in
whole forming or creating an obstacle to the proper functioning
combination, will be sufficient to address the identified
of the internal market, shall adopt an implementing act auth­
macroprudential or systemic risk taking into account the
orising the competent authority or the designated authority to
relative effectiveness of those measures;
adopt the proposed measure.
(f) the systemic risk buffer rate that the Member State wishes
to require. 16. Each competent authority or designated authority shall
announce the setting of the systemic risk buffer by publication
on an appropriate website. The announcement shall include at
least the following information:
13. The competent authority or the designated authority may
from 1 January 2015 set or reset a systemic risk buffer rate that
applies to exposures located in that Member State and may also
apply to exposures in third countries of up to 5 % and follow (a) the systemic risk buffer rate;
L 176/410 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the institutions to which the systemic risk buffer applies; recommendation as referred to in Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
No 1092/2010 to one or more Member States which may
recognise the systemic risk buffer rate.
(c) a justification for the systemic risk buffer;
S e c t i o n I I
(d) the date from which the institutions must apply the setting S e t t i n g a n d c a l c u l a t i n g c o u n t e r c y c l i c a l
or resetting of the systemic risk buffer; and c a p i t a l b u f f e r s
Article 135
(e) the names of the countries where exposures located in those ESRB guidance on setting countercyclical buffer rates
countries are recognised in the systemic risk buffer.
1. The ESRB may give, by way of recommendations in
accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010,
guidance to authorities designated by Member States under
If the publication referred to in point (c) could jeopardise the Article 136(1) on setting countercyclical buffer rates, including
stability of the financial system, the information under point (c) the following:
shall not be included in the announcement.
(a) principles to guide designated authorities when exercising
17. Where an institution fails to meet fully the requirement their judgment as to the appropriate countercyclical buffer
under paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall be subject to the rate, ensure that authorities adopt a sound approach to
restrictions on distributions set out in Article 141(2) and (3). relevant macro-economic cycles and promote sound and
consistent decision-making across Member States;
Where the application of those restrictions on distributions
leads to an unsatisfactory improvement of the Common (b) general guidance on:
Equity Tier 1 capital of the institution in the light of the
relevant systemic risk, the competent authorities may take
additional measures in accordance with Article 64. (i) the measurement and calculation of the deviation from
long term trends of ratios of credit to gross domestic
product (GDP);
18. Following notification as referred to in paragraph 11,
Member States may apply the buffer to all exposures. Where
the competent authority or the designated authority decides to (ii) the calculation of buffer guides required by
set the buffer up to 3 % on the basis of exposures in other Article 136(2);
Member States, the buffer shall be set equally on all exposures
located within the Union.
(c) guidance on variables that indicate the build-up of system-
wide risk associated with periods of excessive credit growth
in a financial system, in particular the relevant credit-to-GDP
Article 134
ratio and its deviation from the long-term trend, and on
Recognition of a systemic risk buffer rate other relevant factors, including the treatment of economic
developments within individual sectors of the economy, that
1. Other Member States may recognise the systemic risk
should inform the decisions of designated authorities on the
buffer rate set in accordance with Article 133 and may apply
appropriate countercyclical buffer rate under Article 136;
that buffer rate to domestically authorised institutions for the
exposures located in the Member State that sets that buffer rate.
(d) guidance on variables, including qualitative criteria, that
indicate that the buffer should be maintained, reduced or
2. If Member States recognise the systemic risk buffer rate
fully released.
for domestically authorised institutions they shall notify the
Commission, the ESRB, EBA and the Member State that sets
that systemic risk buffer rate.
2. Where it issues a recommendation under paragraph 1, the
ESRB shall duly take into account the differences between
Member States and in particular the specificities of Member
3. When deciding whether to recognise a systemic risk buffer States with small and open economies.
rate, the Member State shall take into consideration the
information presented by the Member State that sets that
buffer rate in accordance with Article 133(11), (12) or (13).
3. Where it has issued a recommendation under paragraph 1,
the ESRB shall keep it under review and update it, where
necessary, in the light of experience of setting buffers under
4. A Member State that sets a systemic risk buffer rate in this Directive or of developments in internationally agreed prac­
accordance with Article 133 may ask the ESRB to issue a tices.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/411
Article 136 a designated authority increases the prevailing countercyclical
buffer rate setting, it shall also decide the date from which
Setting countercyclical buffer rates
the institutions must apply that increased buffer for the
1. Each Member State shall designate a public authority or purposes of calculating their institution-specific countercyclical
body (a 'designated authority') that is responsible for setting the capital buffer. That date shall be no later than 12 months after
countercyclical buffer rate for that Member State. the date when the increased buffer setting is announced in
accordance with paragraph 7. If the date is less than 12
months after the increased buffer setting is announced, that
shorter deadline for application shall be justified on the basis
2. Each designated authority shall calculate for every quarter
of exceptional circumstances.
a buffer guide as a reference to guide its exercise of judgment in
setting the countercyclical buffer rate in accordance with
paragraph 3. The buffer guide shall reflect, in a meaningful
6. If a designated authority reduces the existing counter­
way, the credit cycle and the risks due to excess credit
cyclical buffer rate, whether or not it is reduced to zero, it
growth in the Member State and shall duly take into account
shall also decide an indicative period during which no
specificities of the national economy. It shall be based on the
increase in the buffer is expected. However, that indicative
deviation of the ratio of credit-to-GDP from its long-term trend,
period shall not bind the designated authority.
taking into account, inter alia:
7. Each designated authority shall announce the quarterly
(a) an indicator of growth of levels of credit within that juris­
setting of the countercyclical buffer rate by publication on its
diction and, in particular, an indicator reflective of the
website. The announcement shall include at least the following
changes in the ratio of credit granted in that Member
information:
State to GDP;
(a) the applicable countercyclical buffer rate;
(b) any current guidance maintained by the ESRB in accordance
with Article 135(1)(b).
(b) the relevant credit-to-GDP-ratio and its deviation from the
long-tem trend;
3. Each designated authority shall assess and set the appro­
priate countercyclical buffer rate for its Member State on a
quarterly basis, and in so doing shall take into account:
(c) the buffer guide calculated in accordance with paragraph 2;
(a) the buffer guide calculated in accordance with paragraph 2;
(d) a justification for that buffer rate;
(b) any current guidance maintained by the ESRB in accordance (e) where the buffer rate is increased, the date from which the
with Article 135(1)(a), (c) and (d) and any recommendations institutions must apply that increased buffer rate for the
issued by the ESRB on the setting of a buffer rate; purposes of calculating their institution-specific counter­
cyclical capital buffer;
(c) other variables that the designated authority considers
relevant for addressing cyclical systemic risk. (f) where the date referred to in point (e) is less than 12
months after the date of the announcement under this para­
graph, a reference to the exceptional circumstances that
justify that shorter deadline for application;
4. The countercyclical buffer rate, expressed as a percentage
of the total risk exposure amount calculated in accordance with
Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of institutions
that have credit exposures in that Member State, shall be (g) where the buffer rate is decreased, the indicative period
between 0 % and 2,5 %, calibrated in steps of 0,25 percentage during which no increase in the buffer rate is expected,
points or multiples of 0,25 percentage points. Where justified together with a justification for that period;
on the basis of the considerations set out in paragraph 3, a
designated authority may set a countercyclical buffer rate in
excess of 2,5 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated Designated authorities shall take all reasonable steps to coor­
in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No dinate the timing of that announcement.
575/2013 for the purpose set out in Article 140(2) of this
Directive.
Designated authorities shall notify each quarterly setting of the
countercyclical buffer rate and the information specified in
5. Where a designated authority sets the countercyclical points (a) to (g) to the ESRB. The ESRB shall publish on its
buffer rate above zero for the first time, or where, thereafter, website all such notified buffer rates and related information.
L 176/412 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 137 Union institutions appropriately from the risks of
excessive credit growth in that country, or a designated
Recognition of countercyclical buffer rates in excess
authority notifies the ESRB that it considers that buffer
of 2,5 %
rate to be insufficient for that purpose.
1. Where a designated authority, in accordance with
Article 136(4), or a relevant third-country authority has set a
countercyclical buffer rate in excess of 2,5 % of the total risk
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3) of Article 139
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the other designated authorities
may recognise that buffer rate for the purposes of the calcu­ Decision by designated authorities on third country
lation by domestically authorised institutions of their insti­ countercyclical buffer rates
tution-specific countercyclical capital buffers.
1. This Article applies irrespective of whether the ESRB has
issued a recommendation to designated authorities as referred to
in Article 138.
2. Where a designated authority in accordance with
paragraph 1 of this Article recognises a buffer rate in excess
of 2,5 % of the total risk exposure amount calculated in
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 2. In the circumstances referred to in point (a) of Article 138,
575/2013, it shall announce that recognition by publication designated authorities may set the countercyclical buffer rate
on its website. The announcement shall include at least the that domestically authorised institutions must apply for the
following information: purposes of the calculation of their institution-specific counter­
cyclical capital buffer.
(a) the applicable countercyclical buffer rate;
3. Where a countercyclical buffer rate has been set and
published by the relevant third-country authority for a third
(b) the Member State or third countries to which it applies; country, a designated authority may set a different buffer rate
for that third country for the purposes of the calculation by
domestically authorised institutions of their institution-specific
countercyclical capital buffer if they reasonably consider that the
(c) where the buffer rate is increased, the date from which the
buffer rate set by the relevant third-country authority is not
institutions authorised in the Member State of the
sufficient to protect those institutions appropriately from the
designated authority must apply that increased buffer rate
risks of excessive credit growth in that country.
for the purposes of calculating their institution-specific
countercyclical capital buffer;
When exercising the power under the first subparagraph, a
(d) where the date referred to in point (c) is less than 12
designated authority shall not set a countercyclical buffer rate
months after the date of the announcement under this para­
below the level set by the relevant third-country authority
graph, a reference to the exceptional circumstances that
unless that buffer rate exceeds 2,5 %, expressed as a percentage
justify that shorter deadline for application.
of the total risk exposure amount calculated in accordance with
Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of institutions
that have credit exposures in that third country.
Article 138
ESRB recommendation on third country countercyclical
buffer rates
In order to achieve coherence for the buffer settings for third
The ESRB may, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation countries the ESRB may give recommendations for such
(EU) No 1092/2010, issue a recommendation to designated settings.
authorities on the appropriate countercyclical buffer rate for
exposures to that third country where:
4. Where a designated authority sets a countercyclical buffer
rate for a third country pursuant to paragraph 2 or 3 which
(a) a countercyclical buffer rate has not been set and published
increases the existing applicable countercyclical buffer rate, the
by the relevant third-country authority for a third country
designated authority shall decide the date from which domes­
('relevant third-country authority') to which one or more
tically authorised institutions must apply that buffer rate for the
Union institutions have credit exposures;
purposes of calculating their institution-specific countercyclical
capital buffer. That date shall be no later than 12 months from
the date when the buffer rate is announced in accordance with
(b) the ESRB considers that a countercyclical buffer rate which paragraph 5. If that date is less than 12 months after the setting
has been set and published by the relevant third-country is announced, that shorter deadline for application shall be
authority for a third country is not sufficient to protect justified on the basis of exceptional circumstances.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/413
5. Designated authorities shall publish any setting of a (b) institutions that are authorised in another Member State
countercyclical buffer rate for a third country pursuant to shall apply a countercyclical buffer rate of 2,5 % of total
paragraph 2 or 3 on their websites, and shall include the risk exposure amount if the designated authority in the
following information: Member State in which they have been authorised has not
recognised the buffer rate in excess of 2,5 % in accordance
with Article 137(1);
(a) the countercyclical buffer rate and the third country to
which it applies;
(c) institutions that are authorised in another Member State
shall apply the countercyclical buffer rate set by the
designated authority of Member State A if the designated
(b) a justification for that buffer rate;
authority in the Member State in which they have been
authorised has recognised the buffer rate in accordance
with Article 137.
(c) where the buffer rate is set above zero for the first time or
is increased, the date from which the institutions must apply
that increased buffer rate for the purposes of calculating
3. If the countercyclical buffer rate set by the relevant third-
their institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer;
country authority for a third country exceeds 2,5 % of total risk
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3) of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Member States shall ensure that
(d) where the date referred to in point (c) is less than 12 the following buffer rates apply to relevant credit exposures
months after the date of the publication of the setting located in that third country for the purposes of the calculation
under this paragraph, a reference to the exceptional circum­ required under paragraph 1 including, where relevant, for the
stances that justify that shorter deadline for application. purposes of the calculation of the element of consolidated
capital that relates to the institution in question:
Article 140
(a) institutions shall apply a countercyclical buffer rate of 2,5 %
Calculation of institution-specific countercyclical capital of total risk exposure amount if the designated authority in
buffer rates the Member State in which they have been authorised has
not recognised the buffer rate in excess of 2,5 % in
1. The institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer rate
accordance with Article 137(1);
shall consist of the weighted average of the countercyclical
buffer rates that apply in the jurisdictions where the relevant
credit exposures of the institution are located or are applied for
the purposes of this Article by virtue of Article 139(2) or (3). (b) institutions shall apply the countercyclical buffer rate set by
the relevant third-country authority if the designated
authority in the Member State in which they have been
authorised has recognised the buffer rate in accordance
Member States shall require institutions, in order to calculate
with Article 137.
the weighted average referred to in the first subparagraph, to
apply to each applicable countercyclical buffer rate its total own
funds requirements for credit risk, determined in accordance
with Part Three, Titles II and IV of Regulation (EU) 4. Relevant credit exposures shall include all those exposure
No 575/2013, that relates to the relevant credit exposures in classes, other than those referred to in points (a) to (f) of
the territory in question, divided by its total own funds Article 112 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, that are subject
requirements for credit risk that relates to all of its relevant to:
credit exposures.
(a) the own funds requirements for credit risk under Part Three,
2. If, in accordance with Article 136(4), a designated
Title II of that Regulation;
authority sets a countercyclical buffer rate in excess of 2,5 %
of total risk exposure amount calculated in accordance with
Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Member
States shall ensure that the following buffer rates apply to (b) where the exposure is held in the trading book, own funds
relevant credit exposures located in the Member State of that requirements for specific risk under Part Three, Title IV,
designated authority ('Member State A') for the purposes of the Chapter 2 of that Regulation or incremental default and
calculation required under paragraph 1 including, where migration risk under Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 5 of
relevant, for the purposes of the calculation of the element of that Regulation;
consolidated capital that relates to the institution in question:
(c) where the exposure is a securitisation, the own funds
(a) domestically authorised institutions shall apply that buffer requirements under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 5 of that
rate in excess of 2,5 % of total risk exposure amount; Regulation.
L 176/414 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. Institutions shall identify the geographical location of a S e c t i o n I I I
relevant credit exposure in accordance with regulatory
C a p i t a l c o n s e r v a t i o n m e a s u r e s
technical standards adopted in accordance with paragraph 7.
Article 141
Restrictions on distributions
6. For the purposes of the calculation required under
1. Member States shall prohibit any institution that meets
paragraph 1:
the combined buffer requirement from making a distribution
in connection with Common Equity Tier 1 capital to an extent
that would decrease its Common Equity Tier 1 capital to a level
(a) a countercyclical buffer rate for a Member State shall apply where the combined buffer requirement is no longer met.
from the date specified in the information published in
accordance with Article 136(7)(e) or Article 137(2)(c) if
the effect of that decision is to increase the buffer rate; 2. Member States shall require institutions that fail to meet
the combined buffer requirement to calculate the Maximum
Distributable Amount ('MDA') in accordance with paragraph 4
and to notify the competent authority of that MDA.
(b) subject to point (c), a countercyclical buffer rate for a third
country shall apply 12 months after the date on which a
change in the buffer rate was announced by the relevant Where the first subparagraph applies, Member States shall
third-country authority, irrespective of whether that prohibit any such institution from undertaking any of the
authority requires institutions incorporated in that third following actions before it has calculated the MDA:
country to apply the change within a shorter period, if
the effect of that decision is to increase the buffer rate;
(a) make a distribution in connection with Common Equity
Tier 1 capital;
(c) where the designated authority of the home Member State
of the institution sets the countercyclical buffer rate for a
(b) create an obligation to pay variable remuneration or discre­
third country pursuant to Article 139(2) or (3), or
tionary pension benefits or pay variable remuneration if the
recognises the countercyclical buffer rate for a third
obligation to pay was created at a time when the institution
country pursuant to Article 137, that buffer rate shall
failed to meet the combined buffer requirements;
apply from the date specified in the information published
in accordance with Article 139(5)(c) or Article 137(2)(c), if
the effect of that decision is to increase the buffer rate;
(c) make payments on Additional Tier 1 instruments.
(d) a countercyclical buffer rate shall apply immediately if the 3. While an institution fails to meet or exceed its combined
effect of that decision is to reduce the buffer rate. buffer requirement, Member States shall prohibit it from
distributing more than the MDA calculated in accordance
with paragraph 4 through any action referred to in points (a),
(b) and (c) of paragraph 2.
For the purposes of point (b), a change in the countercyclical
buffer rate for a third country shall be considered to be
announced on the date that it is published by the relevant 4. Member States shall require institutions to calculate the
third-country authority in accordance with the applicable MDA by multiplying the sum calculated in accordance with
national rules. paragraph 5 by the factor determined in accordance with
paragraph 6. The MDA shall be reduced by any of the
actions referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of the second
subparagraph of paragraph 2.
7. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the method for the identification of the geographical
location of the relevant credit exposures referred to in
5. The sum to be multiplied in accordance with paragraph 4
paragraph 5.
shall consist of:
(a) interim profits not included in Common Equity Tier 1
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory standards to the
capital pursuant to Article 26(2) of Regulation (EU)
Commission by 1 January 2014.
No 575/2013 that have been generated since the most
recent decision on the distribution of profits or any of
the actions referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of the
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory second subparapgraph of paragraph 2 of this Article;
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. plus
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/415
(b) year-end profits not included in Common Equity Tier 1
Combined buffer
capital pursuant to Article 26(2) of Regulation (EU)
requirement
No 575/2013 that have been generated since the most Lower bound of quartile Q
n
– 1
recent decision on the distribution of profits or any of ¼ 4 Ü ð Þ
the actions referred to in point (a), (b) or (c) of the
second subparapgraph of paragraph 2 of this Article; Combined buffer
requirement
Upper bound of quartile
¼ 4 Ü
Q
n
minus
"Q
n
" indicates the ordinal number of the quartile concerned.
(c) amounts which would be payable by tax if the items
7. The restrictions imposed by this Article shall only apply to
specified in points (a) and (b) of this paragraph were to
payments that result in a reduction of Common Equity Tier 1
be retained.
capital or in a reduction of profits, and where a suspension of
payment or failure to pay does not constitute an event of
default or a condition for the commencement of proceedings
under the insolvency regime applicable to the institution.
6. The factor shall be determined as follows:
8. Where an institution fails to meet the combined buffer
requirement and intends to distribute any of its distributable
(a) where the Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained by the
profits or undertake an action referred to in points (a), (b)
institution which is not used to meet the own funds
and (c) of the second subparagraph of paragraph 2, it shall
requirement under Article 92(1)(c) of Regulation (EU)
notify the competent authority and provide the following
No 575/2013, expressed as a percentage of the total risk
information:
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3)
of that Regulation, is within the first (that is, the lowest)
quartile of the combined buffer requirement, the factor shall
(a) the amount of capital maintained by the institution,
be 0;
subdivided as follows:
(i) Common Equity Tier 1 capital,
(b) where the Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained by the
institution which is not used to meet the own funds
requirement under Article 92(1)(c) of Regulation (EU)
(ii) Additional Tier 1 capital,
No 575/2013, expressed as a percentage of the total risk
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3)
of that Regulation, is within the second quartile of the
(iii) Tier 2 capital;
combined buffer requirement, the factor shall be 0,2;
(b) the amount of its interim and year-end profits;
(c) where the Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained by the
institution which is not used to meet the own funds
requirement under Article 92(1)(c) of Regulation (EU) (c) the MDA calculated in accordance with paragraph 4;
No 575/2013, expressed as a percentage of the total risk
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3)
of that Regulation, is within the third quartile of the (d) the amount of distributable profits it intends to allocate
combined buffer requirement, the factor shall be 0,4; between the following:
(i) dividend payments,
(d) where the Common Equity Tier 1 capital maintained by the
institution which is not used to meet the own funds
requirement under Article 92(1)(c) of Regulation (EU) (ii) share buybacks,
No 575/2013, expressed as a percentage of the total risk
exposure amount calculated in accordance with Article 92(3)
of that Regulation, is within the fourth (that is, the highest) (iii) payments on Additional Tier 1 instruments,
quartile of the combined buffer requirement, the factor shall
be 0,6;
(iv) the payment of variable remuneration or discretionary
pension benefits, whether by creation of a new
obligation to pay, or payment pursuant to an obligation
The lower and upper bounds of each quartile of the combined to pay created at a time when the institution failed to
buffer requirement shall be calculated as follows: meet its combined buffer requirements.
L 176/416 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
9. Institutions shall maintain arrangements to ensure that the (d) any other information that the competent authority
amount of distributable profits and the MDA are calculated considers to be necessary to carry out the assessment
accurately, and shall be able to demonstrate that accuracy to required by paragraph 3.
the competent authority on request.
3. The competent authority shall assess the capital conser­
10. For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, a distribution in
vation plan, and shall approve the plan only if it considers that
connection with Common Equity Tier 1 capital shall include the
the plan, if implemented, would be reasonably likely to
following:
conserve or raise sufficient capital to enable the institution to
meet its combined buffer requirements within a period which
the competent authority considers appropriate.
(a) a payment of cash dividends;
(b) a distribution of fully or partly paid bonus shares or other 4. If the competent authority does not approve the capital
capital instruments referred to in Article 26(1)(a) of Regu­ conservation plan in accordance with paragraph 3, it shall
lation (EU) No 575/2013; impose one or both of the following:
(c) a redemption or purchase by an institution of its own (a) require the institution to increase own funds to specified
shares or other capital instruments referred to in levels within specified periods;
Article 26(1)(a) of that Regulation;
(d) a repayment of amounts paid up in connection with capital (b) exercise its powers under Article 102 to impose more
instruments referred to in Article 26(1)(a) of that Regu­ stringent restrictions on distributions than those required
lation; by Article 141.
(e) a distribution of items referred to in points (b) to (e) of
TITLE VIII
Article 26(1) of that Regulation.
DISCLOSURE BY COMPETENT AUTHORITIES
Article 143
Article 142
General disclosure requirements
Capital Conservation Plan
1. Competent authorities shall publish the following
1. Where an institution fails to meet its combined buffer information:
requirement, it shall prepare a capital conservation plan and
submit it to the competent authority no later than five
working days after it identified that it was failing to meet that
requirement, unless the competent authority authorises a longer (a) the texts of laws, regulations, administrative rules and
delay up to 10 days. general guidance adopted in their Member State in the
field of prudential regulation;
Competent authorities shall grant such authorisations only on
the basis of the individual situation of a credit institution and
(b) the manner of exercise of the options and discretions
taking into account the scale and complexity of the institution's
available in Union law;
activities.
2. The capital conservation plan shall include the following: (c) the general criteria and methodologies they use in the
review and evaluation referred to in Article 97;
(a) estimates of income and expenditure and a forecast balance
sheet;
(d) without prejudice to the provisions set out in Title VII,
Chapter 1, Section II of this Directive and Articles 54 and
58 of Directive 2004/39/EC, aggregate statistical data on
(b) measures to increase the capital ratios of the institution;
key aspects of the implementation of the prudential
framework in each Member State, including the number
and nature of supervisory measures taken in accordance
(c) a plan and timeframe for the increase of own funds with the with Article 102(1)(a) and of administrative penalties
objective of meeting fully the combined buffer requirement; imposed in accordance with Article 65.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/417
2. The information published in accordance with paragraph (i) the total amount of own funds on the consolidated
1 shall be sufficient to enable a meaningful comparison of the basis of the parent institution in a Member State,
approaches adopted by the competent authorities of the which benefits from the exercise of the discretion laid
different Member States. The disclosures shall be published down in Article 7(3) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013,
following a common format and updated regularly. The which are held in subsidiaries in a third country;
disclosures shall be accessible at a single electronic location.
(ii) the percentage of total own funds on the consolidated
3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards basis of parent institutions in a Member State which
to determine the format, structure, contents list and annual benefits from the exercise of the discretion laid down in
publication date of the information listed in paragraph 1. Article 7(3) of that Regulation, represented by own
funds which are held in subsidiaries in a third country;
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 1 January 2014. (iii) the percentage of total own funds required under
Article 92 of that Regulation on the consolidated
basis of parent institutions in a Member State, which
benefits from the exercise of the discretion laid down in
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
Article 7(3) of that Regulation, represented by own
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
funds which are held in subsidiaries in a third country.
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
3. The competent authority which exercises the discretion
laid down in Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013
Article 144
shall publish all the following:
Specific disclosure requirements
1. For the purpose of Part Five of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013, competent authorities shall publish the following (a) the criteria it applies to determine that there is no current or
information: foreseen material practical or legal impediment to the
prompt transfer of own funds or repayment of liabilities;
(a) the general criteria and methodologies adopted to review
compliance with Articles 405 to 409 of Regulation (EU) (b) the number of parent institutions which benefit from the
No 575/2013; exercise of the discretion laid down in Article 9(1) of Regu­
lation (EU) No 575/2013 and the number of such parent
institutions which incorporate subsidiaries in a third
country;
(b) without prejudice to the provisions laid down in Title VII,
Chapter 1, Section II, a summary description of the
outcome of the supervisory review and description of the
measures imposed in cases of non-compliance with Articles
(c) on an aggregate basis for the Member State:
405 to 409 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, identified on
an annual basis.
(i) the total amount of own funds of parent institutions
which benefit from the exercise of the discretion laid
2. The competent authority of a Member State exercising the
down in Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013
discretion laid down in Article 7(3) of Regulation (EU)
which are held in subsidiaries in a third country;
No 575/2013 shall publish the following information:
(ii) the percentage of total own funds of parent institutions
(a) the criteria it applies to determine that there is no current or
which benefit from the exercise of the discretion laid
foreseen material practical or legal impediment to the
down in Article 9(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013
prompt transfer of own funds or repayment of liabilities;
represented by own funds which are held in subsidiaries
in a third country;
(b) the number of parent institutions which benefit from the
exercise of the discretion laid down in Article 7(3) of Regu­
(iii) the percentage of total own funds required under
lation (EU) No 575/2013 and the number of those which
Article 92 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of parent
incorporate subsidiaries in a third country;
institutions which benefit from the exercise of the
discretion laid down in Article 9(1) of that Regulation
represented by own funds which are held in subsidiaries
(c) on an aggregate basis for the Member State: in a third country.
L 176/418 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
TITLE IX Article 146
DELEGATED AND IMPLEMENTING ACTS Implementing Acts
Article 145 The following measures shall be adopted as implementing acts
in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in
Delegated Acts
Article 147(2):
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in
accordance with Article 148 concerning the following:
(a) technical adjustments to the list in Article 2;
(a) clarification of the definitions set out in Article 3 and
Article 128 to ensure uniform application of this Directive; (b) alteration of the amount of initial capital prescribed in
Article 12 and Title IV to take account of developments
in the economic and monetary field.
(b) clarification of the definitions set out in Article 3 and
Article 128 in order to take account, in the application of
this Directive, of developments on financial markets; Article 147
European Banking Committee
1. For the adoption of implementing acts, the Commission
(c) alignment of terminology on, and the framing of, defi­ shall be assisted by the European Banking Committee. That
nitions set out in Article 3 in accordance with subsequent committee shall be a committee within the meaning of
acts on institutions and related matters; Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011.
(d) adjustment of the amounts referred to in Article 31(1) to 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of
take account of changes in the European Index of Consumer Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Prices as published by Eurostat, in line with, and at the same
time as, the adjustments made under Article 4(7) of
Directive 2002/92/EC;
Article 148
Exercise of the delegation
(e) expansion of the content of the list referred to in Articles 1. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the
33 and 34 and set out in Annex I or adaptation of the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
terminology used in that list to take account of devel­
opments on financial markets;
2. The delegation of power referred to in Article 145 shall be
conferred for an indeterminate period of time from 17 July
(f) identification of the areas in which the competent auth­ 2013.
orities must exchange information as set out in Article 50;
3. The delegation of powers referred to in Article 145 may
be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the
(g) adjustment of the provisions set out in Articles 76 to 88
Council. A decision of revocation shall put an end to the
and Article 98 in order to take account of developments on
delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take
financial markets (in particular new financial products) or in
effect the day following the publication of the decision in the
accounting standards or requirements which take account of
Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified
Union law, or with regard to the convergence of supervisory
therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts
practices;
already in force.
(h) deferral of the disclosure obligations in accordance with the 4. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall
second subparagraph of Article 89(3) where the notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the
Commission report submitted pursuant to the first Council.
subparagraph of that paragraph identifies significant
negative effects;
5. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 145 shall
enter into force only if no objection has been expressed
(i) adjustments of the criteria set out in Article 23(1), in order either by the European Parliament or the Council within a
to take account of future developments and to ensure the period of three months of notification of that act to the
uniform application of this Directive. European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/419
of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, of Regulation (EU)
both informed the Commission that they will not object. That No 1094/2010 and of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010
period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the respectively.".
European Parliament or the Council.
TITLE XI
Article 149 TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Objections to regulatory technical standards CHAPTER 1
Where the Commission adopts a regulatory technical standard Transitional provisions on the supervision of institutions
pursuant to this Directive which is the same as the draft regu­ exercising the freedom of establishment and the freedom to
latory technical standard submitted by EBA, the period during provide services
which the European Parliament and the Council may object to
Article 151
that regulatory technical standard shall be one month from the
date of notification. At the initiative of the European Parliament Scope
or the Council that period shall be extended by one month. By
way of derogation from the second subparagraph of 1. The provisions in this Chapter shall apply instead of
Article 13(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the period Articles 40, 41, 43, 49, 50 and 51 until the date on which
during which the European Parliament or the Council may the liquidity coverage requirement becomes applicable in
object to that regulatory technical standard may, where appro­ accordance with a delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 460
priate, be further extended by one month. of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013.
2. In order to ensure that the phasing in of supervisory
TITLE X arrangements for liquidity is fully aligned with the development
of uniform liquidity rules, the Commission shall be empowered
AMENDMENTS OF DIRECTIVE 2002/87/EC
to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 145 post­
Article 150 poning the date referred to in paragraph 1 by up to two years,
where uniform liquidity rules have not been introduced in the
Amendments of Directive 2002/87/EC
Union because international standards on liquidity supervision
Article 21a of Directive 2002/87/EC is hereby amended as have not yet been agreed upon at the date referred to in
follows: paragraph 1 of this Article.
Article 152
(a) in paragraph 2, point (a) is deleted;
Reporting requirements
Host Member States may, for statistical purposes, require that all
credit institutions having branches within their territories shall
(b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: report periodically on their activities in those host Member
States to the competent authorities of those host Member
States.
"3. In order to ensure consistent application of the calcu­
lation methods listed in Annex I, Part II, of this Directive, in
In discharging the responsibilities imposed on them in
conjunction with Article 49(1) of Regulation (EU) No
Article 156 of this Directive, host Member States may require
575/2013 and Article 228(1) of Directive 2009/138/EC,
that branches of credit institutions from other Member States
but without prejudice to Article 6(4) of this Directive, the
provide the same information as they require from national
ESAs shall, through the Joint Committee, develop draft
credit institutions for that purpose.
regulatory technical standards with regard to Article 6(2)
of this Directive.
Article 153
Measures taken by the competent authorities of the home
The ESA shall submit those draft regulatory technical
Member State in relation to activities carried out in the
standards to the Commission by five months before the
host Member State
date of application referred to in Article 309(1) of
Directive 2009/138/EC. 1. Where the competent authorities of a host Member State
ascertain that a credit institution having a branch or providing
services within its territory is not complying with the legal
provisions adopted in that Member State pursuant to this
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regu­ Directive involving powers of the host Member State's
latory technical standards referred to in the first competent authorities, those authorities shall require the credit
subparagraph in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of institution concerned to remedy its non-compliance.
L 176/420 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. If the credit institution concerned fails to take the impact of their decisions on the stability of the financial system
necessary steps, the competent authorities of the host Member in all other Member States concerned and, in particular, in
State shall inform the competent authorities of the home emergency situations, based on the information available at
Member State accordingly. the relevant time.
3. The competent authorities of the home Member State Article 156
shall, at the earliest opportunity, take all appropriate measures
Liquidity supervision
to ensure that the credit institution concerned remedies its non-
compliance. The nature of those measures shall be
Host Member States shall, pending further coordination, retain
communicated to the competent authorities of the host
responsibility in cooperation with the competent authorities of
Member State.
the home Member State for the supervision of the liquidity of
the branches of credit institutions.
4. If, despite the measures taken by the home Member State
or because such measures prove inadequate or are not provided
Without prejudice to the measures necessary for the
for in the Member State in question, the credit institution
reinforcement of the European Monetary System, host
persists in violating the legal rules referred to in paragraph 1
Member States shall retain complete responsibility for the
in force in the host Member State, the latter may, after
measures resulting from the implementation of their monetary
informing the competent authorities of the home Member
policies.
State, take appropriate measures to prevent or to punish
further breaches and, in so far as is necessary, to prevent that
credit institution from initiating further transactions within its
territory. Member States shall ensure that it is possible to serve Such measures shall not provide for discriminatory or restrictive
the legal documents necessary for those measures on credit treatment based on the fact that a credit institution is authorised
institutions within their territories. in another Member State.
Article 154 Article 157
Precautionary measures Collaboration concerning supervision
Before following the procedure provided for in Article 153, the The competent authorities of the Member States concerned shall
competent authorities of the host Member State may, in emerg­ collaborate closely in order to supervise the activities of insti­
encies, take any precautionary measures necessary to protect the tutions operating, in particular through a branch, in one or
interests of depositors, investors and others to whom services more Member States other than that in which their head
are provided. The Commission and the competent authorities of offices are situated. They shall supply one another with all
the other Member States concerned shall be informed of such information concerning the management and ownership of
measures at the earliest opportunity. such institutions that is likely to facilitate their supervision
and the examination of the conditions for their authorisation,
and all information likely to facilitate the monitoring of such
institutions, in particular with regard to liquidity, solvency,
The Commission may, after consulting the competent auth­
deposit guarantees, the limiting of large exposures, adminis­
orities of the Member States concerned, decide that the
trative and accounting procedures and internal control mech­
Member State in question shall amend or abolish those
anisms.
measures.
Article 155 Article 158
Responsibility Significant branches
1. The prudential supervision of an institution, including that 1. The competent authorities of a host Member State may
of the activities it carries out in accordance with Articles 33 and make a request to the consolidating supervisor where
34, shall be the responsibility of the competent authorities of Article 112(1) applies or to the competent authorities of the
the home Member State, without prejudice to those provisions home Member State, for a branch of an institution other than
of this Directive which give responsibility to the competent an investment firm subject to Article 95 of Regulation (EU)
authorities of the host Member State. No 575/2013 to be considered as significant.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not prevent supervision on a 2. That request shall provide reasons for considering the
consolidated basis pursuant to this Directive. branch to be significant with particular regard to the following:
3. The competent authorities in one Member State shall, in (a) whether the market share of the branch in terms of deposits
the exercise of their general duties, duly consider the potential exceeds 2 % in the host Member State;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/421
(b) the likely impact of a suspension or closure of the oper­ this Article and the exchange of information under Article 60.
ations of the institution on systemic liquidity and the The establishment and functioning of the college shall be based
payment, clearing and settlement systems in the host on written arrangements determined, after consulting the
Member State; competent authorities concerned, by the competent authority
of the home Member State. The competent authority of the
home Member State shall decide which competent authorities
participate in a meeting or in an activity of the college.
(c) the size and the importance of the branch in terms of
number of clients within the context of the banking or
financial system of the host Member State.
6. The decision of the competent authority of the home
Member State shall take account of the relevance of the super­
visory activity to be planned or coordinated for those auth­
The competent authorities of the home and host Member orities, in particular the potential impact on the stability of
States, and the consolidating supervisor where Article 112(1) the financial system in the Member States concerned referred
applies, shall do everything within their power to reach a joint to in Article 155(3) and the obligations referred to in paragraph
decision on the designation of a branch as being significant. 2 of this Article.
If no joint decision is reached within two months of receipt of a 7. The competent authority of the home Member State shall
request under the first subparagraph, the competent authorities keep all members of the college fully informed, in advance, of
of the host Member State shall take their own decision within a the organisation of such meetings, the main issues to be
further period of two months on whether the branch is discussed and the activities to be considered. The competent
significant. In taking their decision, the competent authorities authority of the home Member State shall also keep all the
of the host Member State shall take into account any views and members of the college fully informed, in a timely manner, of
reservations of the consolidating supervisor or the competent the actions taken in those meetings or the measures carried out.
authorities of the home Member State.
Article 159
The decisions referred to in the second and third subparagraphs
On-the-spot checks
shall be set out in a document containing full reasons, shall be
transmitted to the competent authorities concerned, and shall 1. Host Member States shall provide that, where an insti­
be recognised as determinative and applied by the competent tution authorised in another Member State carries out its
authorities of the Member States concerned. activities through a branch, the competent authorities of the
home Member State may, after having informed the
competent authorities of the host Member State, carry out
themselves or through an intermediary on-the-spot checks of
The designation of a branch as being significant shall not affect the information referred to in Article 50.
the rights and responsibilities of the competent authorities
under this Directive.
2. The competent authorities of the home Member State may
also, for the purposes of such on-the-spot checking of branches,
3. The competent authorities of the home Member State have recourse to one of the other procedures set out in
shall communicate to the competent authorities of a host Article 118.
Member State where a significant branch is established the
information referred to in Article 117(1)(c) and (d) and carry
out the tasks referred to in Article 112(1)(c) in cooperation with
the competent authorities of the host Member State. 3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not affect the right of the
competent authorities of the host Member State to carry out,
in the discharge of their responsibilities under this Directive, on-
the-spot checks of branches established within their territory.
4. If a competent authority of a home Member State
becomes aware of an emergency situation as referred to in
Article 114(1), it shall alert as soon as practicable the authorities
referred to in Article 58(4) and in Article 59(1). CHAPTER 2
Transitional provisions for capital buffers
Article 160
5. Where Article 116 does not apply, the competent auth­
Transitional provisions for capital buffers
orities supervising a institution with significant branches in
other Member States shall establish and chair a college of super­ 1. This Article amends the requirements of Articles 129 and
visors to facilitate the reaching of a joint decision on the desig­ 130 for a transitional period between 1 January 2016 and
nation of a branch as being significant under paragraph 2 of 31 December 2018.
L 176/422 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. For the period from 1 January 2016 until 31 December buffer from 31 December 2013. Where a Member State
2016: imposes such a shorter transitional period, it shall inform the
relevant parties, including the Commission, the ESRB, EBA and
the relevant supervisory colleges, accordingly. Such a shorter
(a) the capital conservation buffer shall consist of Common transitional period may be recognised by other Member
Equity Tier 1 capital equal to 0,625 % of the total of the States. Where another Member State recognises such a shorter
risk-weighted exposure amounts of the institution calculated transitional period, it shall notify the Commission, the ESRB,
in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) EBA and the relevant supervisory college accordingly.
No 575/2013;
7. Where a Member State imposes a shorter transitional
(b) the institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer shall be
period for the countercyclical capital buffer the shorter period
no more than 0,625 % of the total of the risk-weighted
shall apply only for the purposes of the calculation of the
exposure amounts of the institution calculated in
institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer by institutions
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No
that are authorised in the Member State for which the
575/2013.
designated authority is responsible.
3. For the period from 1 January 2017 until 31 December
2017: CHAPTER 3
Final provisions
(a) the capital conservation buffer shall consist of Common Article 161
Equity Tier 1 capital equal to 1,25 % of the total of the
risk-weighted exposure amounts of the institution calculated Review and report
in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU)
1. The Commission shall conduct periodic reviews of the
No 575/2013;
implementation of this Directive in order to ensure that its
implementation does not result in manifest discrimination
between institutions on the basis of their legal structure or
(b) the institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer shall be ownership model.
no more than 1,25 % of the total of the risk-weighted
exposure amounts of the institution calculated in
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013. 2. By 30 June 2016, the Commission shall, in close
cooperation with EBA, submit a report to the European
Parliament and to the Council, together with a legislative
4. For the period from 1 January 2018 until 31 December proposal if appropriate, on the provisions on remuneration in
2018: this Directive and in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, following a
review thereof, taking into account international developments
and with particular regard to:
(a) the capital conservation buffer shall consist of Common
Equity Tier 1 capital equal to 1,875 % of the total of the
risk-weighted exposure amounts of the institution calculated
(a) their efficiency, implementation and enforcement, including
in accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU)
the identification of any lacunae arising from the application
No 575/2013;
of the principle of proportionality to those provisions;
(b) the institution-specific countercyclical capital buffer shall be
no more than 1,875 % of the total of the risk-weighted (b) the impact of compliance with the principle in
exposure amounts of the institution calculated in Article 94(1)(g) in respect of:
accordance with Article 92(3) of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013.
(i) competitiveness and financial stability; and
5. The requirement for a capital conservation plan and the
restrictions on distributions referred to in Articles 141 and 142
shall apply during the transitional period between 1 January
(ii) any staff working effectively and physically in
2016 and 31 December 2018 where institutions fail to meet
subsidiaries established outside the EEA of parent insti­
the combined buffer requirement taking into account the
tutions established within the EEA.
requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 4 of this Article.
6. Member States may impose a shorter transitional period That review shall consider, in particular, whether the principle
than that specified in paragraphs 1 to 4 and thereby implement set out in Article 94(1)(g) should continue to apply to any staff
the capital conservation buffer and the countercyclical capital covered by point (b)(ii) of the first subparagraph.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/423
3. From 2014, EBA shall, in cooperation with EIOPA and Article 162
ESMA, publish a biannual report analysing the extent to which
Transposition
Member States' law refers to external credit ratings for regu­
latory purposes and the steps taken by Member States to reduce 1. By 31 December 2013 Member States shall adopt and
such references. Those reports shall outline how the competent publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions
authorities meet their obligations under Article 77(1) and (3) necessary to comply with this Directive.
and Article 79(b). Those reports shall also outline the degree of
supervisory convergence in that regard.
Member States shall apply those provisions from 31 December
2013.
4. By 31 December 2014, the Commission shall review and
report on the application of Articles 108 and 109 and shall
submit that report to the European Parliament and to the
Member States shall communicate to the Commission and to
Council together with a legislative proposal if appropriate.
EBA the text of the main provisions of national law which they
adopt in the field covered by this Directive. Where the
documents accompanying notification of transposition
measures provided by Member States are not sufficient to
5. By 31 December 2016, the Commission shall review and
assess fully the compliance of the transposing provisions with
report on the results achieved under Article 91(11), including
certain provisions of this Directive, the Commission may, upon
the appropriateness of benchmarking diversity practices, taking
EBA's request with a view to carrying out its tasks under Regu­
into account all relevant Union and international developments,
lation (EU) No 1093/2010, or on its own initiative, require
and shall submit that report to the European Parliament and to
Member States to provide more detailed information regarding
the Council together with a legislative proposal if appropriate.
the transposition and implementation of those provisions and
this Directive.
6. By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall consult the
ESRB, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and other relevant parties on the 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Title VII, Chapter
effectiveness of information-sharing arrangements under this 4 shall apply from 1 January 2016.
Directive, both in normal times and during times of stress.
3. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions
necessary to comply with Article 94(1)(g) shall require insti­
7. By 31 December 2015, EBA shall review and submit a
tutions to apply the principles laid down therein to remun­
report to the Commission on the application of this Directive
eration awarded for services provided or performance from
and of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 on the cooperation of the
the year 2014 onwards, whether due on the basis of
Union and Member States with third countries. That report shall
contracts concluded before or after 31 December 2013.
identify any areas which require further development as regards
cooperation and information sharing. EBA shall publish the
report on its website.
4. When Member States adopt the provisions referred to in
paragraphs 1 and 2, they shall contain a reference to this
Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the
8. Upon receiving a mandate from the Commission, EBA occasion of their official publication. They shall also include a
shall explore whether financial sector entities which declare statement that references in existing laws, regulations and
that they carry out their activities in accordance with Islamic administrative provisions to the Directives repealed by this
banking principles are adequately covered by this Directive and Directive shall be construed as references to this Directive.
by Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The Commission shall review Member States shall determine how such reference is to be
the report prepared by EBA and shall submit a legislative made and how that statement is to be formulated.
proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council if
appropriate.
5. By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article,
Article 131 shall apply from 1 January 2016. Member States
shall implement Article 131(4) from 1 January 2016 in the
9. By 1 July 2014, EBA shall report to the Commission on
following manner:
credit institutions' use of and benefits from ESCB central banks
longer-term refinancing operations and similar central bank
funding support measures. Based on that report and after
consulting the ECB, the Commission shall, by 31 December
(a) 25 % of the G-SII buffer, set in accordance with
2014, submit a report to the European Parliament and to the
Article 131(4), in 2016;
Council on the use of and benefits from those refinancing
operations and funding support measures for credit institutions
authorised in the Union, together with a legislative proposal on
the use of such refinancing operations and funding support (b) 50 % of the G-SII buffer, set in accordance with
measures if appropriate. Article 131(4), in 2017;
L 176/424 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) 75 % of the G-SII buffer, set in accordance with Article 164
Article 131(4), in 2018; and
Entry into force
This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day
(d) 100 % of the G-SII buffer, set in accordance with
following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
Article 131(4), in 2019.
European Union.
6. By way of derogation from paragraph 2 of this Article,
Article 133 shall apply from 31 December 2013. Article 165
Addressees
Article 163
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Repeal
Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC are repealed with effect
Done at Brussels, 26 June 2013.
from 1 January 2014.
References to the repealed Directives shall be construed as
references to this Directive and to Regulation (EU) No For the European Parliament For the Council
575/2013 and shall be read in accordance with the correlation
The President The President
table set out in Annex II to this Directive and in Annex IV to
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. M. SCHULZ A. SHATTER
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/425
ANNEX I
LIST OF ACTIVITIES SUBJECT TO MUTUAL RECOGNITION
1. Taking deposits and other repayable funds.
2. Lending including, inter alia: consumer credit, credit agreements relating to immovable property, factoring, with or
without recourse, financing of commercial transactions (including forfeiting).
3. Financial leasing.
4. Payment services as defined in Article 4(3) of Directive 2007/64/EC.
5. Issuing and administering other means of payment (e.g. travellers' cheques and bankers' drafts) insofar as such activity
is not covered by point 4.
6. Guarantees and commitments.
7. Trading for own account or for account of customers in any of the following:
(a) money market instruments (cheques, bills, certificates of deposit, etc.);
(b) foreign exchange;
(c) financial futures and options;
(d) exchange and interest-rate instruments;
(e) transferable securities.
8. Participation in securities issues and the provision of services relating to such issues.
9. Advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy and related questions and advice as well as services
relating to mergers and the purchase of undertakings.
10. Money broking.
11. Portfolio management and advice.
12. Safekeeping and administration of securities.
13. Credit reference services.
14. Safe custody services.
15. Issuing electronic money.
The services and activities provided for in Sections A and B of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC, when referring to the
financial instruments provided for in Section C of Annex I of that Directive, are subject to mutual recognition in
accordance with this Directive.
L 176/426 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
ANNEX II
CORRELATION TABLE
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 1 Article 1(1)
Article 2(1)
Article 2(2)
Article 2(3)
Article 2(4) Article 1(2)
Article 2(5) Article 2
Article 2(6) Article 1(3)
Article 3 Article 4
Article 3(1), point (53) Article 4, point (49)
Article 4(1)
Article 4(2)
Article 4(3)
Article 4(4)
Article 4(5) Article 35(1)
Article 4(6)
Article 4(7)
Article 4(8)
Article 5 Article 128
Article 6 Article 42b(1)
Article 7 Article 40(3)
Article 8(1) Article 6(1)
Article 8(2) Article 6(2)
Article 8(3) Article 6(3)
Article 8(4)
Article 9 Article 5
Article 10 Article 7
Article 11 Article 8
Article 12(1) Article 9(1), first subparagraph
Article 12(2) Article 9(1), second subparagraph
Article 12(3) Article 9(1), third subparagraph
Article 12(4) Article 9(2)
Article 13(1) Article 11(1)
Article 13(2) Article 11(2)
Article 14(1) Article 12(1)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/427
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 14(2) Article 12(2)
Article 14(3) Article 12(3)
Article 15 Article 13
Article 16(1) Article 15(1)
Article 16(2) Article 15(2)
Article 16(3) Article 15(3)
Article 17 Article 16
Article 18 Article 17(1)
Article 19 Article 18
Article 20(1) Article 14
Article 20(2) Article 14
Article 20(3)
Article 20(5) Article 17(2)
Article 21 Article 3
Article 22(1) Article 19(1)
Article 22(2) Article 19(2)
Article 22(3) Article 19(3)
Article 22(4) Article 19(4)
Article 22(5) Article 19(5)
Article 22(6) Article 19(6)
Article 22(7) Article 19(7)
Article 22(8) Article 19(8)
Article 22(9) Article 19(9)
Article 23(1) Article 19a(1)
Article 23(2) Article 19a(2)
Article 23(3) Article 19a(3)
Article 23(4) Article 19a(4)
Article 23(5) Article 19a(5)
Article 24(1) Article 19b(1)
Article 24(2) Article 19b(2)
Article 25 Article 20
Article 26(1) Article 21(1)
Article 26(2) Article 21(2)
Article 27 Article 21(3)
Article 28(1) Article 4
Article 28(2) Article 9
Article 29(1) Article 5(1)
L 176/428 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 29(2) Article 5(2)
Article 29(3) Article 5(3)
Article 29(4) Article 5(2)
Article 30 Article 6
Article 31(1) Article 7
Article 31(2) Article 8
Article 32(1) Article 10(1)
Article 32(2) Article 10(2)
Article 32(3) Article 10(3)
Article 32(4) Article 10(4)
Article 32(5) Article 10(5)
Article 33 Article 23
Article 34(1) Article 24(1)
Article 34(2) Article 24(2)
Article 34(3) Article 24(3)
Article 35(1) Article 25(1)
Article 35(2) Article 25(2)
Article 35(3) Article 25(3)
Article 35(4) Article 25(4)
Article 35(5) Article 25(5)
Article 35(6) Article 25(5)
Article 35(7) Article 25(5)
Article 36(1) Article 26(1)
Article 36(2) Article 26(2)
Article 36(3) Article 26(3)
Article 36(4) Article 26(4)
Article 36(5) Article 26(5)
Article 36(6) Article 26(5)
Article 36(7) Article 26(5)
Article 37 Article 36
Article 38 Article 27
Article 39(1) Article 28(1)
Article 39(2) Article 28(2)
Article 39(3) Article 28(3)
Article 39(4) Article 28(4)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/429
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 39(5) Article 28(4)
Article 39(6) Article 28(4)
Article 40, first paragraph Article 29, first paragraph
Article 40, second paragraph
Article 40, third paragraph
Article 41(1) Article 30(1) and (2)
Article 41(2)
Article 42 Article 32
Article 43(1) Article 33, first paragraph
Article 43(2)
Article 43(3)
Article 43(4)
Article 43(5)
Article 44 Articles 31 and 34
Article 45 Article 35
Article 46 Article 37
Article 47(1) Article 38(1)
Article 47(2) Article 38(2)
Article 47(3) Article 38(3)
Article 48(1) Article 39(1)
Article 48(2) Article 39(2)
Article 48(3) Article 39(3)
Article 48(4) Article 39(4)
Article 49(1) Article 40(1)
Article 49(2) Article 40(2)
Article 49(3) Article 41, third paragraph
Article 50(1) Article 42, first paragraph
Article 50(2)
Article 50(3)
Article 50(4)
Article 50(5) Article 42, second paragraph
Article 50(6) Article 42, third and sixth paragraphs
Article 50(7) Article 42, fourth and seventh para­
graph
Article 50(8) Article 42, fifth paragraph
Article 51(1) Article 42a(1)
Article 51(2) Article 42a(2)
Article 51(3) Article 42a(3)
L 176/430 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 51(4) Article 42a(3)
Article 51(5) Article 42a(3)
Article 51(6)
Article 52(1) Article 43(1)
Article 52(2) Article 43(2)
Article 52(3)
Article 52(4)
Article 53(1) Article 44(1)
Article 53(2) Article 44(2)
Article 53(3)
Article 54 Article 45
Article 55 Article 46
Article 56 Article 47
Article 57(1) Article 48(1), first subparagraph
Article 57(2) Article 48(1), second subparagraph
Article 57(3) Article 48(2), first and second
subparagraph
Article 57(4) Article 48(2), third subparagraph
Article 57(5) Article 48(2), fifth subparagraph
Article 57(6) Article 48(2), fourth subparagraph
Article 58 Article 49, first paragraph
Article 58(2) Article 49, second paragraph
Article 58(3) Article 49, fourth paragraph
Article 58(4) Article 49, fifth paragraph
Article 59(1) Article 50
Article 59(2)
Article 60 Article 51
Article 61(1) Article 52, first paragraph
Article 61(2) Article 52, second paragraph
Article 62
Article 63(1) Article 53(1)
Article 63(2) Article 53(2)
Article 64
Article 65
Article 66
Article 67
Article 68
Article 69
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/431
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 70
Article 71
Article 72 Article 55
Article 73 Article 123
Article 74(1) Article 22(1)
Article 74(2) Article 22(2)
Article 74(3) Article 22(6)
Article 74(4)
Article 75(1) Article 22(3)
Article 75(2) Article 22(4)
Article 75(3) Article 22(5)
Article 76(1) Annex V, point 2
Article 76(2)
Article 76(3)
Article 76(4)
Article 76(5)
Article 77
Article 78
Article 79 Annex V, points 3, 4 and 5
Article 80 Annex V, point 6
Article 81 Annex V, point 7
Article 82(1) Annex V, point 8
Article 82(2) Annex V, point 9
Article 83(1) Annex V, point 10
Article 83(2) Annex IV, point 5
Article 83(3) Annex I, points 38 and 41
Article 84 Annex V, point 11
Article 85(1) Annex V, point 12
Article 85(2) Annex V, point 13
Article 86(1) Annex V, point 14
Article 86(2) Annex V, point 14a
Article 86(3)
Article 86(4) Annex V, point 15
Article 86(5) Annex V, point 16
Article 86(6) Annex V, point 17
Article 86(7) Annex V, point 18
Article 86(8) Annex V, point 19
L 176/432 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 86(9) Annex V, point 20
Article 86(10) Annex V, point 21
Article 86(11) Annex V, point 22
Article 87
Article 88(1) Annex V, point 1
Article 88 (2)
Article 89
Article 90
Article 91
Article 92(1) Annex V, point 23, second paragraph
Article 92(2), introductory sentence Annex V, point 23, introductory
sentence
Article 92(2)(a) Annex V, point 23(a)
Article 92(2)(b) Annex V, point 23(b)
Article 92(2)(c) Annex V, point 23(c)
Article 92(2)(d) Annex V, point 23(d)
Article 92(2)(e) Annex V, point 23(e)
Article 92(2)(f) Annex V, point 23(f)
Article 92(2)(g)
Article 93 Annex V, point 23(k)
Article 94(1)(a) Annex V, point 23(g)
Article 94(1)(b) Annex V, point 23(h)
Article 94(1)(c) Annex V, point 23(i)
Article 94(1)(d)
Article 94(1)(e) Annex V, point 23(j)
Article 94(1)(f) Annex V, point 23(l)
Article 94(1)(g)
Article 94(1)(h) Annex V, point 23(m)
Article 94(1)(i)
Article 94(1)(j) Annex V, point 23(n)
Article 94(1)(k) Annex V, point 23(n)
Article 94(1)(l) Annex V, point 23(o)
Article 94(1)(m) Annex V, point 23(p)
Article 94(1)(n) Annex V, point 23(q)
Article 94(1)(o) Annex V, point 23(r)
Article 94(1)(p) Annex V, point 23(s)
Article 94(1)(q) Annex V, point 23(t)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/433
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 94(2) Article 150(3)b
Article 95 Annex V, point 24
Article 96
Article 97(1) Article 124(1)
Article 97(2) Article 124(2)
Article 97(3) Article 124(3)
Article 97(4) Article 124(4)
Article 98(1) Annex XI, point 1
Article 98(2) Annex XI, point 1a
Article 98(3) Annex XI, point 2
Article 98(4) Annex XI, point 3
Article 98(5) Article 124(5)
Article 98(6)
Article 98(7)
Article 99
Article 100
Article 101
Article 102(1) Article 136(1)
Article 102(2)
Article 103
Article 104 Article 136
Article 105
Article 106(1) Article 149
Article 106(2)
Article 107
Article 108(1), first subparagraph Article 68(2)
Article 108(1), second subparagraph Article 3
Article 108(1), third subparagraph
Article 108(2) Article 71(1)
Article 108(3) Article 71(2)
Article 108(4) Article 73(2)
Article 109(1) Article 68(1)
Article 109(2) Article 73(3)
Article 109(3)
Article 110(1) Article 124(2)
Article 110(2) Article 23
Article 111(1) Article 125(1) Article 2
L 176/434 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 111(2) Article 125(2) Article 2
Article 111(3) Article 126(1)
Article 111(4) Article 126(2)
Article 111(5) Article 126(3)
Article 111(6) Article 126(4)
Article 112(1) Article 129(1), first subparagraph
Article 112(2) Article 129(1), second subparagraph
Article 112(3) Article 129(1), third subparagraph
Article 113(1)(a) Article 129(3), first subparagraph
Article 113(1)(b)
Article 113(2)(a), first subparagraph Article 129(3), second subparagraph
Article 113(2)(b), first subparagraph
Article 113(2), second subparagraph Article 129(3), second subparagraph
Article 113(3), third subparagraph Article 129(3), third subparagraph
Article 113(3) Article 129(3), fourth to seventh
subparagraph
Article 113(4) Article 129(3), eighth and ninth
subparagraph
Article 113(5) Article 129(3), tenth and eleventh
subparagraph
Article 114 Article 130
Article 115 Article 131
Article 116(1) Article 131a(1), first, second and third
subparagraph
Article 116(2) Article 131a(1), fourth subparagraph
Article 116(3) Article 131a(2), first subparagraph
Article 116(4) Article 131a(2), second and third
subparagraph
Article 116(5) Article 131a(2), fourth and fifth
subparagraph
Article 116(6) Article 131a(2), sixth subparagraph
Article 116(7) Article 131a(2), seventh subparagraph
Article 116(8) Article 131a(2), eighth subparagraph
Article 116(9) Article 131a(2), ninth subparagraph
Article 117(1) Article 132(1), first to sixth subpara­
graph
Article 117(2) Article 132(1), seventh and eighth
subparagraph
Article 117(3) Article 132(2)
Article 117(4) Article 132(3)
Article 118 Article 141
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/435
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 119(1) Article 127(1)
Article 119(2) Article 127(2)
Article 119(3) Article 127(3)
Article 120 Article 72a
Article 121 Article 135
Article 122 Article 137
Article 123 (1) Article 138(1)
Article 123(2) Article 138(2), first subparagraph
Article 124 Article 139
Article 125 Article 140 Article 2
Article 126 Article 142
Article 127 Article 143
Article 128
Article 129
Article 130
Article 131
Article 132
Article 133
Article 134
Article 135
Article 136
Article 137
Article 138
Article 139
Article 140
Article 141
Article 142
Article 143 Article 144
Article 144(1) Article 122a(9)
Article 144(2) Article 69(4)
Article 144(3) Article 70(4)
Article 145 Article 150(1)
Article 146 Article 150(1a)
Article 147(1) Article 151(1)
Article 147(2) Article 151(2)
Article 148(1) Article 151a(3)
L 176/436 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Directive Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 148(2) Article 151a(1)
Article 148(3) Article 151b
Article 148(4) Article 151a(2)
Article 148(5) Article 151c
Article 149
Article 150
Article 151
Article 152 Article 29
Article 153 Article 30
Article 154 Article 33
Article 155 Article 40
Article 156 Article 41
Article 157 Article 42
Article 158 Article 42a
Article 159 Article 43
Article 160
Article 161(1) Article 156, sixth paragraph
Article 161(2) Article 156, fourth paragraph
Article 161(3)
Article 161(4)
Article 161(5)
Article 161(6)
Article 161(7)
Article 161(8)
Article 161(9)
Article 162(1)
Article 162(2)
Article 162(3)
Article 162(4) Article 157(1), third subparagraph
Article 162(5)
Article 162(6)
Article 163 Article 158
Article 164 Article 159
Article 165 Article 160
Annex I Annex I