27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/1
I
(Legislative acts)
REGULATIONS
REGULATION (EU) No 575/2013 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 26 June 2013
on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation
(EU) No 648/2012
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE given by the G-20, in September 2009 the Group of
EUROPEAN UNION, Central Bank Governors and Heads of Supervision
(GHOS), agreed on a number of measures to strengthen
the regulation of the banking sector. Those measures
were endorsed by the G-20 leaders at their Pittsburgh
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Summit of 24-25 September 2009 and were set out in
Union, and in particular Article 114 thereof,
detail in December 2009. In July and September 2010,
GHOS issued two further announcements on design and
calibration of those new measures, and in December
2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
(BCBS) published the final measures, that are referred
to as the Basel III framework.
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national
parliaments,
(2) The High Level Group on Financial Supervision in the EU
chaired by Jacques de Larosière (the "de Larosière group")
Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank ( 1) ,
invited the Union to develop a more harmonised set of
financial regulations. In the context of the future
European supervisory architecture, the European
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Council of 18 and 19 June 2009 also stressed the
Social Committee ( 2 ), need to establish a 'European Single Rule Book'
applicable to all credit institutions and investment firms
in the internal market.
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure,
(3) As stated in the de Larosière group's report of
Whereas:
25 February 2009 (the "de Larosière report"), "a
Member State should be able to adopt more stringent
national regulatory measures considered to be domes­
(1) The G-20 Declaration of 2 April 2009 on Strengthening tically appropriate for safeguarding financial stability as
of the Financial System called for internationally long as the principles of the internal market and agreed
consistent efforts that are aimed at strengthening trans­ minimum core standards are respected".
parency, accountability and regulation by improving the
quantity and quality of capital in the banking system
once the economic recovery is assured. That declaration
also called for introduction of a supplementary non-risk
based measure to contain the build-up of leverage in the (4) Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of
banking system, and the development of a framework for the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up
stronger liquidity buffers. In response to the mandate and pursuit of the business of credit institutions ( 3 ) and
Directive 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of
( 1 ) OJ C 105, 11.4.2012, p. 1.
( 2 ) OJ C 68, 6.3.2012, p. 39. ( 3 ) OJ L 177, 30.6.2006, p. 1.
L 176/2 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
the Council of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of between national rules, which might hamper the cross-
investment firms and credit institutions ( 1 ) have been border provision of services and the freedom of estab­
significantly amended on several occasions. Many lishment and so create obstacles to the smooth func­
provisions of Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC tioning of the internal market.
are applicable to both credit institutions and investment
firms. For the sake of clarity and in order to ensure a
coherent application of those provisions, they should be
merged into new legislative acts that are applicable to
(9) For reasons of legal certainty and because of the need for
both credit institutions and investment firms, namely
a level playing field within the Union, a single set of
this Regulation and Directive 2013/36/EU of the
European Parliament and of the Council ( 2 ). For greater
regulations for all market participants is a key element
for the functioning of the internal market. In order to
accessibility, the provisions of the Annexes to Directives
avoid market distortions and regulatory arbitrage,
2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC should be integrated into
prudential minimum requirements should therefore
the enacting terms of Directive 2013/36/EU and this
ensure maximum harmonisation. As a consequence, the
Regulation.
transitional periods provided for in this Regulation are
essential for the smooth implementation of this Regu­
lation and to avoid uncertainty for the markets.
(5) Together, this Regulation and Directive 2013/36/EU
should form the legal framework governing the access
to the activity, the supervisory framework and the
prudential rules for credit institutions and investment
(10) Having regard to work of the BCBS' Standards Imple­
firms (referred to collectively as "institutions"). This Regu­
mentation Group in monitoring and reviewing member
lation should therefore be read together with that
countries' implementation of the Basel III framework, the
Directive
Commission should provide update reports on an
ongoing basis, and at least following the publication of
each Progress Report by BCBS, on the implementation
and domestic adoption of the Basel III framework in
(6) Directive 2013/36/EU, based on Article 53(1) of the
other major jurisdictions, including an assessment of
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union
the consistency of other countries' legislation or regu­
(TFEU), should, inter alia, contain the provisions
lations with the international minimum standards, in
concerning the access to the activity of institutions, the
order to identify differences that could raise level
modalities for their governance, and their supervisory
playing field concerns.
framework, such as provisions governing the authori­
sation of the business, the acquisition of qualifying
holdings, the exercise of the freedom of establishment
and of the freedom to provide services, the powers of
the competent authorities of the home and the host (11) In order to remove obstacles to trade and distortions of
Member States in this regard and the provisions competition resulting from divergences between national
governing the initial capital and the supervisory review laws and to prevent further likely obstacles to trade and
of institutions. significant distortions of competition from arising, it is
therefore necessary to adopt a regulation establishing
uniform rules applicable in all Member States.
(7) This Regulation should, inter alia, contain the prudential
requirements for institutions that relate strictly to the
functioning of banking and financial services markets
and are meant to ensure the financial stability of the (12) Shaping prudential requirements in the form of a regu­
operators on those markets as well as a high level of lation would ensure that those requirements will be
protection of investors and depositors. This Regulation directly applicable. This would ensure uniform conditions
aims at contributing in a determined manner to the by preventing diverging national requirements as a result
smooth functioning of the internal market and should, of the transposition of a directive. This Regulation would
consequently, be based on the provisions of Article 114 entail that all institutions follow the same rules in all the
TFEU, as interpreted in accordance with the consistent Union, which would also boost confidence in the
case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. stability of institutions, especially in times of stress. A
regulation would also reduce regulatory complexity and
firms' compliance costs, especially for institutions
operating on a cross-border basis, and contribute to elim­
(8) Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC, although having inating competitive distortions. With regard to the pecu­
harmonised the rules of Member States in the area of liarity of immovable property markets which are char­
prudential supervision to a certain degree, include a acterised by economic developments and jurisdictional
significant number of options and possibilities for differences that are specific to Member States, regions
Member States to impose stricter rules than those laid or local areas, competent authorities should be allowed
down by those Directives. This results in divergences to set higher risks weights or to apply stricter criteria
based on default experience and expected market devel­
( 1 ) OJ L 177, 30.6.2006, p. 201. opments to exposures secured by mortgages on
( 2 ) See page 338 of this Official Journal. immovable property in specific areas.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/3
(13) In areas not covered by this Regulation, such as dynamic proceeding, where there is very strong evidence that the
provisioning, provisions on national covered bonds relevant conditions are not satisfied. Whilst this Regu­
schemes not related to the treatment of covered bonds lation establishes uniform microprudential rules for insti­
under the rules established by this Regulation, acquisition tutions, Member States retain a leading role in macro­
and holding of participations in both the financial and prudential oversight because of their expertise and their
non-financial sector for purposes not related to existing responsibilities in relation to financial stability. In
prudential requirements specified in this Regulation, that specific case, since the decision to adopt any
competent authorities or Member States should be able national macroprudential measures includes certain
to impose national rules, provided that they are not assessments in relation to risks which may ultimately
inconsistent with this Regulation. affect the macroeconomic, fiscal and budgetary
situation of the relevant Member State, it is necessary
that the power to reject the proposed national macro­
prudential measures is conferred on the Council in
accordance with Article 291 TFEU, acting on a
(14) The most important recommendations advocated in the proposal by the Commission.
de Larosière report and later implemented in the Union
were the establishment of a singlerulebook and a
European framework for macroprudential supervision
where both elements in combination were aimed at
ensuring financial stability. The single rulebook ensures
(17) Where the Commission has submitted to the Council a
a robust and uniform regulatory framework facilitating
proposal to reject national macroprudential measures, the
the functioning of the internal market and prevents regu­
Council should examine that proposal without delay and
latory arbitrage opportunities. Within the internal market
decide whether or not to reject the national measures. A
for financial services, macroprudential risks may however
vote could be taken in accordance with the Rules of
differ in a number of ways with a range of national
Procedure of the Council ( 3 ) at the request of a
specificities resulting in variances being observed for
Member State or of the Commission. In accordance
example with regard to the structure and size of the
with Article 296 TFEU, the Council should state the
banking sector compared to the wider economy and
reasons for its decision with respect to the conditions
the credit cycle.
laid down in this Regulation for its intervention.
Considering the importance of the macroprudential and
systemic risk for the financial market of the Member
State concerned and therefore the need for rapid
reaction, it is important that the time limit for such a
(15) A number of tools to prevent and mitigate macropru­ Council decision is set to one month. If the Council, after
dential and systemic risks have been built into this Regu­ having examined the proposal by the Commission to
lation and Directive 2013/36/EU ensuring flexibility reject the proposed national measures in depth, comes
while at the same time ensuring that the use of those to the conclusion that the conditions laid down in this
tools are subject to appropriate control in order not to Regulation for the rejection of the national measures
harm the function of the internal market while also were not fulfilled, it should always provide its reasons
ensuring that the use of such tools is transparent and in a clear and unambiguous manner.
consistent.
(18) Until the harmonisation of liquidity requirements in
(16) Beyond the systemic risk buffer tool included in Directive
2015 and the harmonisation of a leverage ratio in
2013/36/EU, where macroprudential or systemic risks
2018, Member States should be able to apply such
concern a Member State, the competent or designated
measures as they consider appropriate, including
authorities of the relevant Member State should have
measures to mitigate macroprudential or systemic risk
the possibility to address those risks by certain specific
in a specific Member State.
national macroprudential measures, when this is
considered more effective to tackle those risks. The
European Systemic Risk Board ("ESRB") established by
Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 24 November
2010 ( 1 ) and the European Supervisory Authority (19) It should be possible to apply systemic risk buffers or
(European Banking Authority) ("EBA") established by individual measures taken by Member States to address
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European systemic risks concerning those Member States, to the
Parliament and of the Council of 24 November banking sector in general or to one or more subsets of
2010 ( 2 ) should have the opportunity to provide their the sector, meaning subsets of institutions that exhibit
opinions on whether the conditions for such national similar risk profiles in their business activities, or to the
macroprudential measures are met and there should be exposures to one or several domestic economic or
a Union mechanism to prevent national measures from geographic sectors across the banking sector.
( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 1. ( 3 ) Council Decision 2009/937/EU of 1 December 2009 adopting the
( 2 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12. Council's Rules of Procedure (OJ L 325, 11.12.2009, p. 35).
L 176/4 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(20) If two or more Member States' designated authorities their ongoing supervisory review of individual institu­
identify the same changes in the intensity of systemic tions. The range of such supervisory arrangements
or macroprudential risk posing a risk to financial should, inter alia, be set out in Directive 2013/36/EU
stability at the national level in each Member State since the competent authorities should be able to exert
which the designated authorities consider would better their judgment as to which arrangements should be
be addressed by means of national measures, the imposed.
Member States may submit a joint notification to the
Council, the Commission, the ESRB and EBA. When
notifying the Council, the Commission, the ESRB and
EBA Member States should submit relevant evidence,
including a justification of the joint notification. (26) This Regulation should not affect the ability of
competent authorities to impose specific requirements
under the supervisory review and evaluation process set
out in Directive 2013/36/EU that should be tailored to
the specific risk profile of institutions.
(21) The Commission should furthermore be empowered to
adopt a delegated act temporarily increasing the level of
own funds requirements, requirements for large
exposures and public disclosure requirements. Such
provisions should be applicable for a period of one (27) Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 aims at upgrading the
year, unless the European Parliament or the Council quality and consistency of national supervision and
has objected to the delegated act within a period of strengthening oversight of cross-border groups.
three months. The Commission should state the
reasons for the use of such a procedure. The Commission
should only be empowered to impose stricter prudential
requirements for exposures which arise from market
developments in the Union or outside the Union (28) Given the increase in the number of tasks conferred on
affecting all Member States. EBA by this Regulation and by Directive 2013/36/EU,
the European Parliament, the Council and the
Commission should ensure that adequate human and
financial resources are made available without delay.
(22) A review of the macroprudential rules is justified in order
for the Commission to assess, among other things,
whether the macroprudential tools in this Regulation or
Directive 2013/36/EU are effective, efficient and trans­ (29) Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 requires EBA to act
parent, whether new instruments should be proposed, within the scope of Directives 2006/48/EC and
whether the coverage and the possible degrees of 2006/49/EC. EBA is also required to act in the field of
overlap of the macroprudential tools for targeting activities of institutions in relation to issues not directly
similar risks in this Regulation or Directive 2013/36/EU covered in those Directives, provided that such actions
are appropriate and how internationally agreed standards are necessary to ensure the effective and consistent appli­
for systemically important institutions interacts with this cation of those Directives. This Regulation should take
Regulation or Directive 2013/36/EU. into account the role and function of EBA and facilitate
the exercise of EBA's powers set out in Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(23) Where Member States adopt guidelines of general scope,
in particular in areas where the adoption by the
Commission of draft technical standards is pending, (30) After the observation period and the full implementation
those guidelines shall neither contradict Union law nor of a liquidity coverage requirement in accordance with
undermine its application. this Regulation, the Commission should assess whether
granting EBA a power of initiative to intervene with
binding mediation in relation to the reaching of joint
decisions by the competent authorities under Articles
20 and 21 of this Regulation would facilitate the
(24) This Regulation does not prevent Member States from practical formation and operation of single liquidity
imposing, where appropriate, equivalent requirements sub-groups as well as the determination of whether
on undertakings that do not fall within its scope. criteria for a specific intragroup treatment for cross-
border institutions are met. Therefore, at that time, as
part of one of the regular reports on the operation of
EBA under Article 81 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010,
the Commission should specifically examine the need to
(25) The general prudential requirements set out in this Regu­ grant EBA such powers and include the results of this
lation are supplemented by individual arrangements that examination in its report, which should be accompanied
are decided by the competent authorities as a result of by appropriate legislative proposals, where appropriate.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/5
(31) The de Larosière report stated that microprudential apply on the basis of the consolidated situation of those
supervision cannot effectively safeguard financial institutions within the group. In order to ensure that
stability without adequately taking account of devel­ own funds are appropriately distributed within the
opments at macro level, while macroprudential group and available to protect savings where needed,
oversight is not meaningful unless it can somehow the capital requirements should apply to individual insti­
impact on supervision at the micro level. Close tutions within a group, unless this objective can be effec­
cooperation between EBA and the ESRB is essential to tively achieved otherwise.
give full effectiveness to the functioning of the ESRB and
follow up to its warnings and recommendations. In
particular, EBA should be able to transmit to the ESRB
all relevant information gathered by competent auth­
orities in accordance with the reporting obligations set (38) The minority interests arising from intermediate financial
out in this Regulation. holding companies that are subject to the requirements
of this Regulation on a sub-consolidated basis may also
be eligible, within the relevant limits, as Common Equity
Tier 1 capital of the group on a consolidated basis, as the
(32) Considering the devastating effects of the latest financial Common Equity Tier 1 capital of an intermediate
crisis the overall objectives of this Regulation are to financial holding company attributable to minority
encourage economically useful banking activities that interests and the part of that same capital attributable
serve the general interest and to discourage unsustainable to the parent company support both pari passu the
financial speculation without real added value. This losses of their subsidiaries when they occur.
implies a comprehensive reform of the ways savings
are channelled into productive investments. In order to
safeguard a sustainable and diverse banking environment
in the Union, competent authorities should be
empowered to impose higher capital requirements for (39) The precise accounting technique to be used for the
systemically important institutions that are able, due to calculation of own funds, their adequacy for the risk to
their business activities, to pose a threat to the global which an institution is exposed, and for the assessment
economy. of the concentration of exposures should take account of
the provisions of Council Directive 86/635/EEC of
8 December 1986 on the annual accounts and
consolidated accounts of banks and other financial insti­
(33) Equivalent financial requirements for institutions holding tutions ( 1 ), which incorporates certain adaptations of the
money or securities belonging to their clients are provisions of Seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of
necessary to ensure similar safeguards for savers and 13 June 1983 on consolidated accounts ( 2 ) or of Regu­
fair conditions of competition between comparable lation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament
groups of institutions. and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application
of international accounting standards ( 3 ), whichever
governs the accounting of the institutions under
national law.
(34) Since institutions in the internal market are engaged in
direct competition, monitoring requirements should be
equivalent throughout the Union taking into account
the different risk profiles of the institutions.
(40) For the purposes of ensuring adequate solvency it is
important to lay down capital requirements which
weight assets and off-balance sheet items according to
the degree of risk.
(35) Whenever in the course of supervision it is necessary to
determine the amount of the consolidated own funds of
a group of institutions, the calculation should be effected
in accordance with this Regulation.
(41) On 26 June 2004 the BCBS adopted a framework
agreement on the international convergence of capital
measurement and capital requirements ('Basel II frame­
(36) According to this Regulation own funds requirements
work'). The provisions in Directives 2006/48/EC and
apply on an individual and consolidated basis, unless
2006/49/EC that this Regulation has taken over form
competent authorities do not apply supervision on an
an equivalent to the provisions of the Basel II framework.
individual basis where they deem this appropriate. Indi­
Consequently, by incorporating the supplementary
vidual, consolidated and cross-border consolidated super­
elements of the Basel III framework this Regulation
vision are useful tools in overseeing institutions.
forms an equivalent to the provisions of the Basel II
and III frameworks.
( 1 ) OJ L 372, 31.12.1986, p. 1.
(37) In order to ensure adequate solvency of institutions ( 2 ) OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1.
within a group it is essential that the capital requirements ( 3 ) OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1.
L 176/6 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(42) It is essential to take account of the diversity of insti­ capital relief produced through the application of the
tutions in the Union by providing alternative approaches supporting factor for the exclusive purpose of
to the calculation of capital requirements for credit risk providing an adequate flow of credit to SMEs established
incorporating different levels of risk-sensitivity and in the Union. Competent authorities should monitor
requiring different degrees of sophistication. Use of periodically the total amount of exposures to SMEs of
external ratings and institutions' own estimates of indi­ credit institutions and the total amount of capital
vidual credit risk parameters represents a significant deduction.
enhancement in the risk-sensitivity and prudential
soundness of the credit risk rules. Institutions should
be encouraged to move towards the more risk-sensitive
approaches. In producing the estimates needed to apply
(45) In line with the decision of the BCBS, as endorsed by the
the approaches to credit risk of this Regulation, insti­
GHOS on 10 January 2011, all additional Tier 1 and Tier
tutions should enhance their credit risk measurement
2 instruments of an institution should be capable of
and management processes to make available methods
being fully and permanently written down or converted
for determining regulatory own funds requirements that
fully into Common Equity Tier 1 capital at the point of
reflect the nature, scale, and complexity of individual
non-viability of the institution. Necessary legislation to
institutions' processes. In this regard, the processing of
ensure that own funds instruments are subject to the
data in connection with the incurring and management
additional loss absorption mechanism should be incor­
of exposures to customers should be considered to
porated into Union law as part of the requirements in
include the development and validation of credit risk
relation to the recovery and resolution of institutions. If
management and measurement systems. That serves not
by 31 December 2015, Union law governing the
only to fulfil the legitimate interests of institutions but
requirement that capital instruments should be capable
also the purpose of this Regulation, to use better
of being fully and permanently written down to zero or
methods for risk measurement and management and
converted into Common Equity Tier 1 instruments in the
also use them for regulatory own funds purposes.
event that an institution is no longer considered viable
Notwithstanding this, the more risk-sensitive approaches
has not been adopted, the Commission should review
require considerable expertise and resources as well as
and report on whether such a provision should be
data of high quality and sufficient volume. Institutions
included in this Regulation and, in light of that review,
should therefore comply with high standards before
submit appropriate legislative proposals.
applying those approaches for regulatory own funds
purposes. Given the ongoing work on ensuring appro­
priate backstops to internal models, the Commission
should prepare a report on the possibility of extending
the Basel I floor together with a legislative proposal, if (46) The provisions of this Regulation respect the principle of
appropriate. proportionality, having regard in particular to the
diversity in size and scale of operations and to the
range of activities of institutions. Respect for the
principle of proportionality also means that the
simplest possible rating procedures, even in the Internal
Ratings Based Approach ('IRB Approach'), are recognised
(43) The capital requirements should be proportionate to the for retail exposures. Member States should ensure that
risks addressed. In particular the reduction in risk levels the requirements laid down in this Regulation apply in
deriving from having a large number of relatively small a manner proportionate to the nature, scale and
exposures should be reflected in the requirements. complexity of the risks associated with an institution's
business model and activities. The Commission should
ensure that delegated and implementing acts, regulatory
technical standards and implementing technical standards
are consistent with the principle of proportionality, so as
to guarantee that this Regulation is applied in a propor­
(44) Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are one of
tionate manner. EBA should therefore ensure that all
the pillars of the Union economy given their funda­
regulatory and implementing technical standards are
mental role in creating economic growth and providing
drafted in such a way that they are consistent with and
employment. The recovery and future growth of the
uphold the principle of proportionality.
Union economy depends largely on the availability of
capital and funding to SMEs established in the Union
to carry out the necessary investments to adopt new
technologies and equipment to increase their competi­
tiveness. The limited amount of alternative sources of (47) Competent authorities should pay appropriate attention
funding has made SMEs established in the Union even to cases where they suspect that information is regarded
more sensitive to the impact of the banking crisis. It is as proprietary or confidential in order to avoid disclosure
therefore important to fill the existing funding gap for of such information. Although an institution may opt
SMEs and ensure an appropriate flow of bank credit to not to disclose information as the information is
SMEs in the current context. Capital charges for regarded as proprietary or confidential, the fact that
exposures to SMEs should be reduced through the appli­ information is being regarded as proprietary or
cation of a supporting factor equal to 0,7619 to allow confidential should not discharge liability arising from
credit institutions to increase lending to SMEs. To achieve non-disclosure of that information when such non-
this objective, credit institutions should effectively use the disclosure is found to have material effect.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/7
(48) The 'evolutionary' nature of this Regulation enables insti­ appropriate including in relation to the charges for
tutions to choose amongst three approaches to credit risk different business lines and the recognition of risk miti­
of varying complexity. In order to allow especially small gation techniques. Particular attention should be paid in
institutions to opt for the more risk-sensitive IRB this regard to taking insurance into account in the simple
Approach, the relevant provisions should be read so approaches to calculating capital requirements for oper­
that exposure classes include all exposures that are, ational risk.
directly or indirectly, put on a par with them throughout
this Regulation. As a general rule, the competent auth­
orities should not discriminate between the three
approaches with regard to the Supervisory Review
(53) The monitoring and control of an institution's exposures
Process, i.e. institutions operating according to the
should be an integral part of its supervision. Therefore,
provisions of the Standardised Approach should not for
excessive concentration of exposures to a single client or
that reason alone be supervised on a stricter basis.
group of connected clients may result in an unacceptable
risk of loss. Such a situation can be considered prejudicial
to the solvency of an institution.
(49) Increased recognition should be given to techniques of
credit risk mitigation within a framework of rules
designed to ensure that solvency is not undermined by
undue recognition. The relevant Member States' current (54) In determining the existence of a group of connected
customary banking collateral for mitigating credit risks clients and thus exposures constituting a single risk, it
should wherever possible be recognised in the Stan­ is also important to take into account risks arising from
dardised Approach, but also in the other approaches. a common source of significant funding provided by the
institution itself, its financial group or its connected
parties.
(50) In order to ensure that the risks and risk reductions
arising from institutions' securitisation activities and
investments are appropriately reflected in the capital (55) While it is desirable to base the calculation of the
requirements of institutions it is necessary to include exposure value on that provided for the purposes of
rules providing for a risk-sensitive and prudentially own funds requirements, it is appropriate to adopt
sound treatment of such activities and investments. To rules for the monitoring of large exposures without
this end, a clear and encompassing definition of securiti­ applying risk weightings or degrees of risk. Moreover,
sation is needed that captures any transaction or scheme the credit risk mitigation techniques applied in the
whereby the credit risk associated with an exposure or solvency regime were designed with the assumption of
pool of exposures is tranched. An exposure that creates a a well-diversified credit risk. In the case of large
direct payment obligation for a transaction or scheme exposures dealing with single name concentration risk,
used to finance or operate physical assets should not credit risk is not well-diversified. The effects of those
be considered an exposure to a securitisation, even if techniques should therefore be subject to prudential safe­
the transaction or scheme has payment obligations of guards. In this context, it is necessary to provide for an
different seniority. effective recovery of credit protection for the purposes of
large exposures.
(51) Alongside surveillance aimed at ensuring financial
stability, there is a need for mechanisms designed to
(56) Since a loss arising from an exposure to an institution
enhance and develop an effective surveillance and
can be as severe as a loss from any other exposure, such
prevention of potential bubbles in order to ensure
exposures should be treated and reported in the same
optimum allocation of capital in the light of the macro­
manner as any other exposures. An alternative quanti­
economic challenges and objectives, in particular with
tative limit has been introduced to alleviate the dispro­
respect to long term investment in the real economy.
portionate impact of such an approach on smaller insti­
tutions. In addition, very short-term exposures related to
money transmission including the execution of payment
services, clearing, settlement and custody services to
(52) Operational risk is a significant risk faced by institutions clients are exempt to facilitate the smooth functioning
requiring coverage by own funds. It is essential to take of financial markets and of the related infrastructure.
account of the diversity of institutions in the Union by Those services cover, for example, the execution of
providing alternative approaches to the calculation of cash clearing and settlement and similar activities to
operational risk requirements incorporating different facilitate settlement. The related exposures include
levels of risk-sensitivity and requiring different degrees exposures which might not be foreseeable and are
of sophistication. There should be appropriate incentives therefore not under the full control of a credit institution,
for institutions to move towards the more risk-sensitive inter alia, balances on inter-bank accounts resulting from
approaches. In view of the emerging state of the art for client payments, including credited or debited fees and
the measurement and management of operational risk interest, and other payments for client services, as well as
the rules should be kept under review and updated as collateral given or received.
L 176/8 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(57) It is important that the interests of undertakings that 're- carried out in a fully autonomous manner, in accordance
package' loans into tradable securities and other financial with the principles of sound management, without regard
instruments (originators or sponsors) and undertakings to any other considerations. This is especially important
that invest in these securities or instruments (investors) in the case of large exposures and in cases not simply
are aligned. To achieve this, the originator or sponsor related to intragroup administration or usual intragroup
should retain a significant interest in the underlying transactions. Competent authorities should pay particular
assets. It is therefore important for the originators or attention to such intragroup exposures. Such standards
the sponsors to retain exposure to the risk of the loans need not, however be applied where the parent under­
in question. More generally, securitisation transactions taking is a financial holding company or a credit insti­
should not be structured in such a way as to avoid the tution or where the other subsidiaries are either credit or
application of the retention requirement, in particular financial institutions or undertakings offering ancillary
through any fee or premium structure or both. Such services, provided that all such undertakings are
retention should be applicable in all situations where covered by the supervision of the credit institution on
the economic substance of a securitisation is applicable, a consolidated basis.
whatever legal structures or instruments are used to
obtain this economic substance. In particular where
credit risk is transferred by securitisation, investors
should make their decisions only after conducting
thorough due diligence, for which they need adequate (61) In view of the risk-sensitivity of the rules relating to
information about the securitisations. capital requirements, it is desirable to keep under
review whether these have significant effects on the
economic cycle. The Commission, taking into account
the contribution of the European Central Bank (ECB),
should report on these aspects to the European
(58) This Regulation also provides that there be no multiple Parliament and to the Council.
applications of the retention requirement. For any given
securitisation it suffices that only the originator, the
sponsor or the original lender is subject to the
requirement. Similarly, where securitisation transactions
contain other securitisations as an underlying, the (62) The capital requirements for commodity dealers,
retention requirement should be applied only to the secu­ including those dealers currently exempt from the
ritisation which is subject to the investment. Purchased requirements of Directive 2004/39/EC of the European
receivables should not be subject to the retention Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on
requirement if they arise from corporate activity where markets in financial instruments ( 1 ), should be reviewed.
they are transferred or sold at a discount to finance such
activity. Competent authorities should apply the risk
weight in relation to non-compliance with due
diligence and risk management obligations in relation
(63) The goal of liberalisation of gas and electricity markets is
to securitisation for non-trivial breaches of policies and
both economically and politically important for the
procedures which are relevant to the analysis of the
Union. With this in mind, the capital requirements and
underlying risks. The Commission should also review
other prudential rules to be applied to firms active in
whether avoidance of multiple applications of the
those markets should be proportionate and should not
retention requirement could be conducive to practices
unduly interfere with achievement of the goal of liberali­
circumventing the retention requirement and whether
sation. This goal should, in particular, be kept in mind
the rules on securitisations are enforced effectively by
when reviews of this Regulation are carried out.
the competent authorities.
(64) Institutions investing in re-securitisations should exercise
(59) Due diligence should be used in order to properly assess
due diligence also with regard to the underlying securiti­
the risks arising from securitisation exposures for both
sations and the non-securitisation exposures ultimately
the trading book and the non-trading book. In addition,
underlying the former. Institutions should assess
due diligence obligations need to be proportionate. Due
whether exposures in the context of asset-backed
diligence procedures should contribute to building
commercial paper programmes constitute re-securiti­
greater confidence between originators, sponsors and
sation exposures, including those in the context of
investors. It is therefore desirable that relevant
programmes which acquire senior tranches of separate
information concerning the due diligence procedures is
pools of whole loans where none of those loans is a
properly disclosed.
securitisation or re-securitisation exposure, and where
the first-loss protection for each investment is provided
by the seller of the loans. In the latter situation, a pool-
specific liquidity facility should generally not be
(60) When an institution incurs an exposure to its own parent considered a re-securitisation exposure because it
undertaking or to other subsidiaries of its parent under­ represents a tranche of a single asset pool (that is, the
taking, particular prudence is necessary. The management
of such exposures incurred by institutions should be ( 1 ) OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/9
applicable pool of whole loans) which contains no secu­ should not be able to benefit from the lower risk weight
ritisation exposures. By contrast, a programme-wide resulting from that protection. The securitisation position
credit enhancement covering only some of the losses should not be deducted from capital if there are other
above the seller-provided protection across the various ways to determine a risk weight in line with the actual
pools generally would constitute a tranching of the risk risk of the position which does not take that credit
of a pool of multiple assets containing at least one secu­ protection into account.
ritisation exposure, and would therefore be a re-securiti­
sation exposure. Nevertheless, if such a programme funds
itself entirely with a single class of commercial paper,
and if either the programme-wide credit enhancement
is not a re-securitisation or the commercial paper is
(70) Given their recent weak performance, the standards for
fully supported by the sponsoring institution, leaving
internal models to calculate market risk capital
the commercial paper investor effectively exposed to
requirements should be strengthened. In particular, their
the default risk of the sponsor instead of the underlying
capture of risks should be completed regarding credit
pools or assets, then that commercial paper generally
risks in the trading book. Furthermore, capital charges
should not be considered a re-securitisation exposure.
should include a component adequate to stress
conditions to strengthen capital requirements in view
of deteriorating market conditions and in order to
reduce the potential for pro-cyclicality. Institutions
(65) The provisions on prudent valuation for the trading book should also carry out reverse stress tests to examine
should apply to all instruments measured at fair value, what scenarios could challenge the viability of the insti­
whether in the trading book or non- trading book of tution unless they can prove that such a test is
institutions. It should be clarified that, where the appli­ dispensable. Given the recent particular difficulties of
cation of prudent valuation would lead to a lower treating securitisation positions using approaches based
carrying value than actually recognised in the accounting, on internal models, the recognition of institutions'
the absolute value of the difference should be deducted modelling of securitisation risks to calculate capital
from own funds. requirements in the trading book should be limited and
a standardised capital charge for securitisation positions
in the trading book should be required by default.
(66) Institutions should have a choice whether to apply a
capital requirement to or deduct from Common Equity
Tier 1 items those securitisation positions that receive a
1 250 % risk weight under this Regulation, irrespective of (71) This Regulation lays down limited exceptions for certain
whether the positions are in the trading or the non- correlation trading activities, in accordance with which
trading book. an institution may be permitted by its supervisor to
calculate a comprehensive risk capital charge subject to
strict requirements. In such cases the institution should
be required to subject those activities to a capital charge
equal to the higher of the capital charge in accordance
(67) Originator or sponsor institutions should not be able to
with that internally developed approach and 8 % of the
circumvent the prohibition of implicit support by using
capital charge for specific risk in accordance with the
their trading books in order to provide such support.
standardised measurement method. It should not be
required to subject those exposures to the incremental
risk charge but they should be incorporated into both
the value-at-risk measures and the stressed value-at-risk
(68) Without prejudice to the disclosures explicitly required measures.
by this Regulation, the aim of the disclosure
requirements should be to provide market participants
with accurate and comprehensive information regarding
the risk profile of individual institutions. Institutions
should therefore be required to disclose additional
(72) In light of the nature and magnitude of unexpected losses
information not explicitly listed in this Regulation
experienced by institutions during the financial and
where such disclosure is necessary to meet that aim. At
economic crisis, it is necessary to improve further the
the same time, competent authorities should pay appro­
quality and harmonisation of own funds that institutions
priate attention to cases where they suspect that
are required to hold. This should include the introduction
information is regarded as proprietary or confidential
of a new definition of the core elements of capital
by an institution in order to avoid disclosure of such
available to absorb unexpected losses as they arise,
information.
enhancements to the definition of hybrid capital and
uniform prudential adjustments to own funds. It is also
necessary to raise significantly the level of own funds,
including new capital ratios focusing on the core
(69) Where an external credit assessment for a securitisation elements of own funds available to absorb losses as
position incorporates the effect of credit protection they arise. It is expected that institutions whose shares
provided by the investing institution itself, the institution are admitted to trading on a regulated market should
L 176/10 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
meet their capital requirements regarding the core (75) This Regulation should not affect the ability of
elements of capital with such shares that meet a strict competent authorities to maintain pre-approval
set of criteria for the core capital instruments and the processes regarding the contracts governing Additional
disclosed reserves of the institution only. In order to Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments. In those cases
adequately take into account the diversity of legal such capital instruments should only be computed
forms institutions within the Union are operating towards the institution's Additional Tier 1 capital or
under, the strict set of criteria for the core capital Tier 2 capital once they have successfully completed
instruments should ensure that core capital instruments these approval processes.
for institutions whose shares are not admitted to trading
on a regulated market are of the highest quality. This
should not prevent institutions from paying, on shares
that have differentiated or no voting rights, distributions
that are a multiple of those paid on shares which have
(76) For the purposes of strengthening market discipline and
relatively higher levels of voting rights, provided that,
enhancing financial stability it is necessary to introduce
irrespective of the level of voting rights, the strict
more detailed requirements for disclosure of the form
criteria for Common Equity Tier 1 instruments are met,
and nature of regulatory capital and prudential
including those relating to the flexibility of payments,
adjustments made in order to ensure that investors and
and provided that where a distribution is paid it is to
depositors are sufficiently well informed about the
be paid on all shares issued by the institution concerned.
solvency of institutions.
(73) Trade finance exposures are diverse in nature but share
characteristics such as being small in value and short in
duration and having an identifiable source of repayment. (77) It is further necessary for competent authorities to have
They are underpinned by movements of goods and knowledge of the level, at least in aggregate terms, of
services that support the real economy and in most repurchase agreements, securities lending and all forms
cases help small companies in their day-to-day needs, of encumbrance of assets. Such information should be
thereby creating economic growth and job opportunities. reported to the competent authorities. For the purposes
Inflows and outflows are usually matched and liquidity of strengthening market discipline, there should be more
risk is therefore limited. detailed requirements for disclosure of repurchase
agreements and secured funding.
(74) It is appropriate that EBA keeps an up-to-date list of all
of the forms of capital instruments in each Member State
that qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments. EBA (78) The new definition of capital and regulatory capital
should remove from that list non-State aid instruments requirements should be introduced in a manner that
issued after the date of entry into force of this Regulation takes account of the fact that there are different
not meeting the criteria specified in this Regulation and national starting points and circumstances, with initial
should publicly announce such removal. Where variance around the new standards reducing over the
instruments removed by EBA from the list continue to transition period. In order to ensure the appropriate
be recognised after EBA's announcement, EBA should continuity in the level of own funds, instruments
fully exercise its powers, in particular those conferred issued within the context of a recapitalisation measure
by Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 pursuant to State aid rules and issued prior to the date of
concerning breaches of Union law. It is recalled that a application of this Regulation will be grandfathered for
three-step mechanism applies for a proportionate the extent of the transition period. Reliance on State aid
response to instances of incorrect or insufficient appli­ should be reduced as much as possible in the future.
cation of Union law, whereby, as a first step, EBA is However, to the extent that State aid proves necessary
empowered to investigate alleged incorrect or insufficient in certain situations, this Regulation should provide for a
application of Union law obligations by national auth­ framework to deal with such situations. In particular, this
orities in their supervisory practice, concluded by a Regulation should specify what should be the treatment
recommendation. Second, where the competent for own funds instruments issued within the context of a
national authority does not follow the recommendation, recapitalisation measure pursuant to State aid rules. The
the Commission is empowered to issue a formal opinion possibility for institutions to benefit from such treatment
taking into account the EBA's recommendation, requiring should be subject to strict conditions. Furthermore, to the
the competent authority to take the actions necessary to extent that such treatment allows for deviations from the
ensure compliance with Union law. Third, to overcome new criteria on the quality of own funds instruments
exceptional situations of persistent inaction by the those deviations should be limited to the largest extent
competent authority concerned, the EBA is empowered, possible. The treatment for existing capital instruments
as a last resort, to adopt decisions addressed to individual issued within the context of a recapitalisation measure
financial institutions. Moreover, it is recalled that, under pursuant to State aid- rules, should clearly distinguish
Article 258 TFEU, where the Commission considers that between those capital instruments that comply with the
a Member State has failed to fulfil an obligation under requirements of this Regulation and those that do not.
the Treaties, it has the power to bring the matter before Appropriate transitional provisions for the latter case
the Court of Justice of the European Union. should therefore be laid down in this Regulation.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/11
(79) Directive 2006/48/EC required credit institutions to correlation in the calculation of the own fund
provide own funds that are at least equal to specified requirements for counterparty credit risk exposures
minimum amounts until 31 December 2011. In the arising from OTC derivatives and securities-financing
light of the continuing effects of the financial crisis in transactions to certain financial institutions. Institutions
the banking sector and the extension of the transitional should also be required to considerably improve
arrangements for capital requirements adopted by the measurement and management of counterparty credit
BCBS, it is appropriate to reintroduce a lower limit for risk by better addressing wrong-way risk, highly
a limited period of time until sufficient amounts of own leveraged counterparties and collateral, accompanied by
funds have been established in accordance with the tran­ the corresponding enhancements in the areas of back-
sitional arrangements for own funds provided for in this testing and stress testing.
Regulation that will be progressively phased in from the
date of application of this Regulation to 2019.
(84) Trade exposures to CCPs usually benefit from the multi­
lateral netting and loss-sharing mechanism provided by
(80) For groups which include significant banking or CCPs. As a consequence, they involve a very low
investment business and insurance business, Directive counterparty credit risk and should therefore be subject
2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the to a very low own funds requirement. At the same time,
Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary this requirement should be positive in order to ensure
supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings that institutions track and monitor their exposures to
and investment firms in a financial conglomerate ( 1) , CCPs as part of good risk management and to reflect
provides specific rules to address such 'double counting' that even trade exposures to CCPs are not risk-free.
of capital. Directive 2002/87/EC is based on inter­
nationally agreed principles for dealing with risk across
sectors. This Regulation strengthens the way those
financial conglomerates rules shall apply to bank and
(85) A CCP's default fund is a mechanism that allows the
investment firm groups, ensuring their robust and
sharing (mutualisation) of losses among the CCP's
consistent application. Any further changes that are
clearing members. It is used where the losses incurred
necessary will be addressed in the review of Directive
by the CCP following the default of a clearing member
2002/87/EC, which is expected in 2015.
are greater than the margins and default fund
contributions provided by that clearing member and
any other defence the CCP may use before recurring to
the default fund contributions of the remaining clearing
(81) The financial crisis highlighted that institutions greatly members. In view of this, the risk of loss associated with
underestimated the level of counterparty credit risk exposures from default fund contributions is higher than
associated with over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. This that associated with trade exposures. Therefore, this type
prompted the G-20, in September 2009, to call for more of exposures should be subject to a higher own funds
OTC derivatives to be cleared through a central requirement.
counterparty (CCP). Furthermore, they asked for those
OTC derivatives that could not be cleared centrally to
be subject to higher own funds requirements in order
to properly reflect the higher risks associated with them.
(86) The "hypothetical capital" of a CCP should be a variable
needed to determine the own funds requirement for a
clearing member's exposures from its contributions to a
CCP's default fund. It should not be understood as
(82) Following the G-20 call, the BCBS, as part of the Basel III anything else. In particular, it should not be understood
framework, materially changed the counterparty credit as the amount of capital that a CCP is required to hold
risk regime. The Basel III framework is expected to by its competent authority.
significantly increase the own fund requirements
associated with institutions' OTC derivatives and
securities financing transactions and to create important
incentives for institutions to use CCPs. The Basel III
(87) The review of the treatment of counterparty credit risk,
framework is also expected to provide further incentives
and in particular putting in place higher own funds
to strengthen the risk management of counterparty credit
requirements for bilateral derivative contracts in order
exposures and to revise the current regime for the
to reflect the higher risk that such contracts pose to
treatment of counterparty credit risk exposures to CCPs.
the financial system, forms an integral part of the
Commission's efforts to ensure efficient, safe and sound
derivatives markets. Consequently, this Regulation
complements Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the
(83) Institutions should hold additional own funds due to European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July
credit valuation adjustment risk arising from OTC deriva­ 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and
tives. Institutions should also apply a higher asset value trade repositories ( 2 ).
( 1 ) OJ L 35, 11.2.2003, p. 1. ( 2 ) OJ L 201, 27.7.2012, p. 1.
L 176/12 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(88) The Commission should review the relevant exemptions (93) In December 2010, the BCBS published guidelines
for large exposures by 31 December 2015. Pending the defining the methodology for calculating the leverage
outcome of that review, Member States should continue ratio. Those rules provide for an observation period
being allowed to decide on the exemption of certain that will run from 1 January 2013 until 1 January
large exposures from those rules for a sufficiently long 2017 during which the leverage ratio, its components
transitional period. Building on the work done in the and its behaviour relative to the risk-based requirement
context of the preparation and negotiation of Directive will be monitored. Based on the results of the obser­
2009/111/EC of the European Parliament and of the vation period the BCBS intends to make any final
Council of 16 September 2009 amending Directives adjustments to the definition and calibration of the
2006/48/EC, 2006/49/EC and 2007/64/EC as regards leverage ratio in the first half of 2017, with a view to
banks affiliated to central institutions, certain own migrating to a binding requirement on 1 January 2018
funds items, large exposures, supervisory arrangements, based on appropriate review and calibration. The BCBS
and crisis management ( 1) and taking into account inter­ guidelines also provide for disclosure of the leverage ratio
national and Union developments on those issues, the and its components starting from 1 January 2015.
Commission should review whether those exemptions
should continue to be applied in a discretionary or in
a more general way and on whether the risks related to
those exposures are addressed by other effective means
laid down in this Regulation. (94) A leverage ratio is a new regulatory and supervisory tool
for the Union. In line with international agreements, it
should be introduced first as an additional feature that
can be applied on individual institutions at the discretion
of supervisory authorities. Reporting obligations for insti­
(89) In order to ensure that exemptions of exposures by tutions would allow appropriate review and calibration,
competent authorities do not jeopardise the coherence with a view to migrating to a binding measure in 2018.
of the uniform rules established by this Regulation on
a permanent basis, after a transitional period, and in the
absence of any outcome of that review, the competent
authorities should consult EBA on whether or not it is
appropriate to continue making use of the possibility to (95) When reviewing the impact of the leverage ratio on
exempt certain exposures. different business models, particular attention should be
paid to business models which are considered to entail
low risk, such as mortgage lending and specialised
lending with regional governments, local authorities or
public sector entities. EBA, on the basis of data received
(90) The years preceding the financial crisis were characterised and the findings of the supervisory review during an
by an excessive build up in institutions' exposures in observation period, should in cooperation with
relation to their own funds (leverage). During the competent authorities develop a classification of
financial crisis, losses and the shortage of funding business models and risks. Based on appropriate
forced institutions to reduce significantly their leverage analysis, and also taking into account historical data or
over a short period of time. This amplified downward stress scenarios, there should be an assessment of the
pressures on asset prices, causing further losses for insti­ appropriate levels of the leverage ratio that safeguard
tutions which in turn led to further declines in their own the resilience of the respective business models and
funds. The ultimate results of this negative spiral were a whether the levels of the leverage ratio should be set
reduction in the availability of credit to the real economy as thresholds or ranges. After the observation period
and a deeper and longer crisis. and the calibration of the respective levels of the
leverage ratio, and on the basis of the assessment, EBA
can publish an appropriate statistical review, including
averages and standard deviations, of the leverage ratio.
After adoption of the leverage ratio requirements, EBA
(91) Risk-based own funds requirements are essential to should publish an appropriate statistical review, including
ensure sufficient own funds to cover unexpected losses. averages and standard deviations, of the leverage ratio in
However, the crisis has shown that those requirements relation to the identified categories of institutions.
alone are not sufficient to prevent institutions from
taking on excessive and unsustainable leverage risk.
(96) Institutions should monitor the level and changes in the
leverage ratio as well as leverage risk as part of the
(92) In September 2009, the G-20 leaders committed to internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP).
developing internationally-agreed rules to discourage an Such monitoring should be included in the supervisory
excessive leverage. To that end, they supported the intro­ review process. In particular, after the entry into force of
duction of a leverage ratio as a supplementary measure the leverage ratio requirements, competent authorities
to the Basel II framework. should monitor the developments in the business
model and corresponding risk profile in order to
( 1 ) OJ L 302, 17.11.2009, p. 97. ensure up to date and proper classification of institutions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/13
(97) Good governance structures, transparency and disclosure ongoing turnover would be expected to be considered
are essential for sound remuneration policies. In order to assets of extremely high liquidity and credit quality. It
ensure adequate transparency to the market of their would also be appropriate that assets corresponding to
remuneration structures and the associated risk, insti­ Article 416(1)(a) to (c) should be included in the buffer
tutions should disclose detailed information on their without limitations. When institutions use the liquidity
remuneration policies, practices and, for reasons of stock, they should put in place a plan to restore their
confidentiality, aggregated amounts for those members holdings of liquid assets and competent authorities
of staff whose professional activities have a material should ensure the adequacy of the plan and its imple­
impact on the risk profile of the institution. That mentation.
information should be made available to all stakeholders.
Those particular requirements should be without
prejudice to more general disclosure requirements
concerning remuneration policies applicable horizontally
across sectors. Moreover, Member States should be
allowed to require institutions to make available more
detailed information on remuneration. (101) The stock of liquid assets should be available at any time
to meet the liquidity outflows. The level of liquidity
needs in a short term liquidity stress should be
determined in a standardised manner so as to ensure a
uniform soundness standard and a level playing field. It
should be ensured that such a standardised determination
(98) The recognition of a credit rating agency as an external
has no unintended consequences for financial markets,
credit assessment institution (ECAI) should not increase
credit extension and economic growth, also taking into
the foreclosure of a market already dominated by three
account different business and investment models and
main undertakings. EBA and ESCB central banks, without
funding environments of institutions across the Union.
making the process easier or less demanding, should
To this end, the liquidity coverage requirement should be
provide for the recognition of more credit rating
subject to an observation period. Based on the obser­
agencies as ECAIs as a way to open the market to
vations and supported by reports from EBA, the
other undertakings.
Commission should be empowered to adopt a
delegated act to introduce in a timely manner a
detailed and harmonised liquidity coverage requirement
for the Union. In order to ensure global harmonisation in
the area of regulation of liquidity any delegated act to
(99) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of
introduce the liquidity coverage requirement should be
the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of
comparable to the liquidity coverage ratio set out in the
individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
final international framework for liquidity risk
and on the free movement of such data ( 1) and Regu­
measurement, standards and monitoring of the BCBS
lation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and
taking into account Union and national specificities.
of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection
of individuals with regard to the processing of personal
data by the Community institutions and bodies and on
the free movement of such data ( 2) , should be fully
applicable to the processing of personal data for the
purposes of this Regulation.
(102) To that end, during the observation period, EBA should
review and assess, inter alia the appropriateness of a
threshold of 60 % on level 1 liquid assets, a cap of
75 % of inflows to outflows and the phase-in of the
(100) Institutions should hold a diversified buffer of liquid liquidity coverage requirement from 60 % from
assets that they can use to cover liquidity needs in a 1 January 2015 increasing on a graduated basis to
short term liquidity stress. As it is not possible to 100 %. When assessing and reporting on the uniform
know ex ante with certainty which specific assets definitions of the stock of liquid assets, EBA should
within each asset class might be subject to shocks ex have regard to the BCBS definition of high quality
post, it is appropriate to promote a diversified and liquid assets (HQLA) for the basis of its analysis, taking
high-quality liquidity buffer consisting of different asset Union and national specificities into account. While EBA
categories. A concentration of assets and overreliance on should identify those currencies where the needs of insti­
market liquidity creates systemic risk to the financial tutions established in the Union for liquid assets exceeds
sector and should be avoided. A broad set of quality the availability of those liquid assets in that currency,
assets should therefore be taken into consideration EBA should also annually examine whether derogations,
during an initial observation period which will be used including those identified in this Regulation, should be
for the development of a definition of a liquidity applied. In addition, EBA should assess annually whether
coverage requirement. When making a uniform defi­ in relation to any such derogation as well as derogations
nition of liquid assets at least government bonds, and already identified in this Regulation, any additional
covered bonds traded on transparent markets with an conditions should be attached to their use by institutions
established in the Union or whether existing conditions
( 1 ) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. should be revised. EBA should submit the results of its
( 2 ) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. analysis in an annual report to the Commission.
L 176/14 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(103) With a view to increasing efficiency and reducing the Commission and the ECB, is an integral part in the
administrative burden, EBA should set up a coherent restructuring of the Irish banking system. Such bonds
reporting framework on the basis of a harmonised set are guaranteed by the Irish government and are eligible
of standards for liquidity requirements that should be collateral with monetary authorities. The Commission
applied across the Union. To this end, EBA should should address specific grandfathering mechanisms of
develop uniform reporting formats and IT solutions transferable assets issued or guaranteed by entities with
that take into account the provisions of this Regulation Union State aid approval, as part of the delegated act
and Directive 2013/36/EU. Until the date of application which it adopts pursuant to this Regulation to specify
of the full liquidity requirements, institutions should the liquidity coverage requirement. In that regard the
continue to meet their national reporting requirements. Commission should take into account the fact that insti­
tutions calculating the liquidity coverage requirements in
accordance with this Regulation should be permitted to
include NAMA senior bonds as assets of extremely high
(104) EBA, in cooperation with the ESRB, should issue liquidity and credit quality until December 2019.
guidance on the principles for use of liquid stock in a
stress situation.
(108) Similarly, the bonds issued by the Spanish Asset
(105) It should not be taken for granted that institutions will Management Company are of particular importance to
receive liquidity support from other institutions the Spanish banking recovery and are a transitional
belonging to the same group when they experience measure supported by the Commission and the ECB, as
difficulties in meeting their payment obligations. an integral part in the restructuring of the Spanish
However, subject to stringent conditions and the indi­ banking system. Since their issuance is provided for in
vidual agreement of all competent authorities involved, the Memorandum of Understanding on Financial Sector
competent authorities should be able to waive the appli­ Policy Conditionality signed by the Commission and the
cation of the liquidity requirement for individual insti­ Spanish Authorities on 23 July 2012, and the transfer of
tutions and subject those institutions to a consolidated assets requires approval by the Commission as a State aid
requirement, in order to allow them to manage their measure introduced to remove impaired assets from the
liquidity centrally at group or sub-group level. balance sheets of certain credit institutions, and to the
extent they are guaranteed by the Spanish government
and are eligible collateral with monetary authorities. The
Commission should address specific grandfathering
(106) In the same vein, where no waiver is granted, liquidity mechanisms of transferable assets issued or guaranteed
flows between two institutions belonging to the same by entities with Union State aid approval as part of the
group and which are subject to consolidated supervision, delegated act which it adopts pursuant to this Regulation
should, when the liquidity requirement becomes a to specify the liquidity coverage requirement. In that
binding measure, receive preferential inflow and regard the Commission should take into account the
outflow rates only in those cases where all the fact that institutions calculating the liquidity coverage
necessary safeguards are in place. Such specific prefer­ requirements in accordance with this Regulation should
ential treatments should be narrowly defined and linked be permitted to include Spanish Asset Management
to the fulfilment of a number of stringent and objective Company senior bonds as assets of extremely high
conditions. The specific treatment applicable to a given liquidity and credit quality until at least December 2023.
intragroup flow should be obtained through a
methodology using objective criteria and parameters in
order to determine specific levels of inflows and outflows
between the institution and the counterparty. Based on
the observations and supported by the EBA report, the (109) On the basis of the reports which EBA is required to
Commission should, as appropriate and as part of the submit and when preparing the proposal for a
delegated act which it adopts pursuant to this Regulation delegated act on liquidity requirements, the Commission
to specify the liquidity coverage requirement, be should also consider if senior bonds issued by legal
empowered to adopt delegated acts to lay down those entities similar to NAMA in Ireland or the Spanish
specific intragroup treatments, the methodology and the Asset Management Company, established for the same
objective criteria to which they are linked as well as joint purpose and of particular importance for bank recovery
decision modalities for the assessment of those criteria. in any other Member State, should be granted such
treatment, to the extent they are guaranteed by the
central government of the relevant Member State and
are eligible collateral with monetary authorities.
(107) Bonds issued by the National Asset Management Agency
(NAMA) in Ireland are of particular importance to the
Irish banking recovery and their issue has been granted
prior approval by the Member States, and approved as a
State aid by the Commission as a support measure (110) In developing draft regulatory technical standards to
introduced to remove impaired assets from the balance determine methods for the measurement of additional
sheets of certain credit institutions. The issuance of such outflow, EBA should consider a historical look back stan­
bonds, a transitional measure supported by the dardised approach as a method of such measurement.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/15
(111) Pending the introduction of the net stable funding ratio structures may have developed in Member States to
(NSFR) as a binding minimum standard, institutions provide stable financing for long-term investment,
should observe a general funding obligation. The including decentralised banking structures to channel
general funding obligation should not be a ratio liquidity or specialised mortgage securities which trade
requirement. If, pending the introduction of the NSFR, on highly liquid markets or are a welcome investment
a stable funding ratio is introduced as a minimum for long-term investors. Those structural factors should
standard by way of a national provision, institutions be carefully considered. It is essential to that purpose
should comply with this minimum standard accordingly. that, once international standards are finalised, EBA and
the ESRB, based on reporting required by this Regulation,
evaluate how a stable funding requirement should be
designed fully taking into account the diversity of
(112) Apart from short-term liquidity needs, institutions should funding structures in the banking market in the Union.
also adopt funding structures that are stable over a
longer term horizon. In December 2010, the BCBS
agreed that the NSFR will move to a minimum
standard by 1 January 2018 and that the BCBS will
put in place rigorous reporting processes to monitor (117) In order to ensure progressive convergence between the
the ratio during a transition period and will continue level of own funds and the prudential adjustments
to review the implications of these standards for applied to the definition of own funds across the
financial markets, credit extension and economic Union and to the definition of own funds laid down in
growth, addressing unintended consequences as this Regulation during a transition period, the phasing in
necessary. The BCBS thus agreed that the NSFR will be of the own funds requirements of this Regulation should
subject to an observation period and will include a occur gradually. It is vital to ensure that this phasing in is
review clause. In that context, EBA should, based on consistent with the recent enhancements made by
reporting required by this Regulation, evaluate how a Member States to the required levels of own funds and
stable funding requirement should be designed. Based to the definition of own funds in place in the Member
on this evaluation, the Commission should report to States. To that end, during the transition period the
the European Parliament and the Council together with competent authorities should determine within defined
any appropriate proposals in order to introduce such a lower and upper limits how rapidly to introduce the
requirement by 2018. required level of own funds and prudential adjustments
laid down in this Regulation.
(113) Weaknesses in corporate governance in a number of
institutions have contributed to excessive and
(118) In order to facilitate smooth transition from divergent
imprudent risk-taking in the banking sector which led
prudential adjustments currently applied in Member
to the failure of individual institutions and systemic
States to the set of prudential adjustments laid down in
problems.
this Regulation, competent authorities should be able
during a transition period to continue to require institu­
tions, to a limited extent, to make prudential adjustments
to own funds that are a derogation from this Regulation.
(114) In order to facilitate the monitoring of institutions'
corporate governance practices and improve market
discipline, institutions should publicly disclose their
corporate governance arrangements. Their management
bodies should approve and publicly disclose a (119) In order to ensure that institutions have sufficient time to
statement providing assurance to the public that these meet the new required levels and definition of own
arrangements are adequate and efficient. funds, certain capital instruments that do not comply
with the definition of own funds laid down in this Regu­
lation should be phased out between 1 January 2013 and
31 December 2021. In addition, certain state-injected
(115) In order to take account of the diversity of business instruments should be recognised fully in own funds
models of institutions in the internal market certain for a limited period. Furthermore, share premium
long-term structural requirements such as the NSFR accounts related to items that qualified as own funds
and the leverage ratio should be examined closely with under national transposition measures for Directive
a view of promoting a variety of sound banking 2006/48/EC should under certain circumstances qualify
structures which have been and should continue to of as Common Equity Tier 1.
service to the Union's economy.
(116) For the continuous provision of financial services to (120) In order to ensure progressive convergence towards
households and firms a stable funding structure is uniform rules on disclosure by institutions to provide
necessary. Long-term funding flows in bank-based market participants with accurate and comprehensive
financial systems in many Member States may generally information regarding the risk profile of individual insti­
possess different characteristics than those found in other tutions, disclosure requirements should be phased in
international markets. In addition, specific funding gradually.
L 176/16 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(121) In order to take account of market developments and adjust the list and classification of off- balance sheet
experience in the application of this Regulation, the items and to adjust specific provisions and technical
Commission should be required to submit reports to criteria on the treatment of counterparty credit risk, the
the European Parliament and to the Council, together Standardised Approach and the IRB Approach, credit risk
with legislative proposals, where appropriate, on the mitigation, securitisation, operational risk, market risk,
possible effect of capital requirements on the economic liquidity, leverage and disclosure in order to take
cycle of minimum, own funds requirements for account of developments on financial markets or in
exposures in the form of covered bonds, large exposures, accounting standards or Union law, or with regard to
liquidity requirements, leverage, exposures to transferred the convergence of supervisory practices and risk
credit risk, counterparty credit risk and the original measurement and to take account of the outcome of
exposure method, retail exposures, on the definition of the review of various matters relating to the scope of
eligible capital, and the level of application of this Regu­ Directive 2004/39/EC.
lation.
(125) The power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290
(122) The primary purpose of the legal framework for credit TFEU should also be delegated to the Commission in
institutions should be to ensure the operation of vital
respect of prescribing a temporary reduction in the
services to the real economy while limiting the risk of
level of own funds or risk weights specified under this
moral hazard. The structural separation of retail and
Regulation in order to take account of specific circum­
investment banking activities within a banking group
stances, to clarify the exemption of certain exposures
could be one of the key tools to support this objective.
from the application of provisions of this Regulation
No provision in the current regulatory framework should
on large exposures, to specify amounts relevant to the
therefore prevent the introduction of measures to effect
calculation of capital requirements for the trading book
such a separation. The Commission should be required to
to take account of developments in the economic and
analyse the issue of structural separation in the Union
monetary field, to adjust the categories of investment
and submit a report, together with legislative proposals, if
firms eligible for certain derogations to required levels
appropriate, to the European Parliament and the Council.
of own funds to take account of developments on
financial markets, to clarify the requirement that
investment firms hold own funds equivalent to one
quarter of their fixed overheads of the preceding year
to ensure uniform application of this Regulation, to
(123) Similarly, with a view to protecting depositors and determine the elements of own funds from which
preserving financial stability, Member States should also deductions of an institution's holdings of the instruments
be permitted to adopt structural measures that require of relevant entities should be made, to introduce
credit institutions authorised in that Member State to additional transitional provisions relating to the
reduce their exposures to different legal entities treatment of actuarial gains and losses in measuring
depending on their activities, irrespective of where defined benefit pension liabilities of institutions. It is of
those activities are located. However, because such particular importance that the Commission carry out
measures could have a negative impact by fragmenting appropriate consultations during its preparatory work,
the internal market, they should only be approved including at expert level. The Commission, when
subject to strict conditions pending the entry into force preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure
of a future legal act explicitly harmonising such a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of
measures. relevant documents to the European Parliament and to
the Council.
(124) In order to specify the requirements set out in this Regu­
lation, the power to adopt acts in accordance with
(126) In accordance with Declaration No 39 on Article 290
Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the
TFEU, the Commission should continue to consult
Commission in respect of technical adjustments to this
experts appointed by the Member States in the prep­
Regulation to clarify definitions to ensure uniform appli­
aration of draft delegated acts in the financial services
cation of this Regulation or to take account of devel­
area, in accordance with its established practice.
opments on financial markets, to align terminology on,
and frame definitions in accordance with, subsequent
relevant acts, to adjust the provisions of this Regulation
on own funds to reflect developments in accounting
standards or Union law, or with regard to the
convergence of supervisory practices, to expand the (127) Technical standards in financial services should ensure
lists of exposure classes for the purposes of the Stan­ harmonisation, uniform conditions and adequate
dardised Approach or the IRB Approach to take protection of depositors, investors and consumers
account of developments on financial markets, to across the Union. As a body with highly specialised
adjust certain amounts relevant to those exposure expertise, it would be efficient and appropriate to
classes to take into account the effects of inflation; to entrust EBA with the elaboration of draft regulatory
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/17
and implementing technical standards which do not technical standard which is the same as the draft regu­
involve policy choices, for submission to the latory technical standard submitted by EBA, the period
Commission. EBA should ensure efficient administrative within which the European Parliament or the Council
and reporting processes when drafting technical stan­ may object to a regulatory technical standard, should,
dards. The reporting formats should be proportionate where appropriate, be further extended by one month.
to the nature, scale and complexity of the activities of Moreover, the Commission should aim to adopt the
the institutions. regulatory technical standards in good time to permit
the European Parliament and the Council to exercise
full scrutiny, taking account of the volume and
complexity of regulatory technical standards and the
details of the European Parliament's and the Council's
(128) The Commission should adopt draft regulatory technical rules of procedure, calendar of work and composition.
standards developed by EBA in the areas of mutuals,
cooperative societies, savings institutions or similar insti­
tutions, certain own funds instruments, prudential adjust­
ments, deductions from own funds, additional own funds
instruments, minority interests, services ancillary to
banking, the treatment of credit risk adjustment, prob­ (132) In order to ensure a high degree of transparency, EBA
ability of default, loss given default, approaches to risk- should launch consultations relating to the draft technical
weighting of assets, convergence of supervisory practices, standards referred to in this Regulation. EBA and the
liquidity, and transitional arrangements for own funds, Commission should start preparing their reports on
by means of delegated acts pursuant to Article 290 liquidity requirements and leverage, as provided for in
TFEU and in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regu­ this Regulation, as soon as possible.
lation (EU) No 1093/2010. It is of particular importance
that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations
during its preparatory work, including at expert level.
The Commission and EBA should ensure that those
standards and requirements can be applied by all insti­
tutions concerned in a manner that is proportionate to
(133) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implemen­
the nature, scale and complexity of those institutions and
tation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be
their activities.
conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be
exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU)
No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules
and general principles concerning mechanisms for
(129) The implementation of some delegated acts provided for
control by the Member States of the Commission's
in this Regulation, such as the delegated act concerning
exercise of implementing powers ( 1) .
the liquidity coverage requirement, may potentially have
a substantial impact on supervised institutions and the
real economy. The Commission should ensure that the
European Parliament and the Council are always well
informed about relevant developments at international
level and current thinking within the Commission well
(134) In accordance with Article 345 TFEU, which provides
before the publication of delegated acts.
that the Treaties are in no way to prejudice the rules
in Member States governing the system of property
ownership, this Regulation neither favours nor
discriminates against types of ownership which are
(130) The Commission should also be empowered to adopt
within its scope.
implementing technical standards developed by EBA
with regard to consolidation, joint decisions, reporting,
disclosure, exposures secured by mortgages, risk
assessment, approaches to risk-weighting of assets, risk-
weights and specification of certain exposures, the
treatment of options and warrants, positions in equity (135) The European Data Protection Supervisor has been
instruments and foreign exchange, the use of internal consulted in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation
models, leverage, and off-balance sheet items by means (EC) No 45/2001 and has adopted an opinion ( 2) .
of implementing acts pursuant to Article 291 TFEU and
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(136) Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 should be amended
accordingly,
(131) Given the detail and number of regulatory technical
standards that are to be adopted pursuant to this Regu­ ( 1 ) OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13.
lation, where the Commission adopts a regulatory ( 2 ) OJ C 175, 19.6.2012, p. 1.
L 176/18 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 4
Definitions
1. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following defi­
PART ONE nitions shall apply:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
TITLE I (1) 'credit institution' means an undertaking the business of
which is to take deposits or other repayable funds from
SUBJECT MATTER, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS
the public and to grant credits for its own account;
Article 1
Scope
(2) 'investment firm' means a person as defined in point (1)
This Regulation lays down uniform rules concerning general of Article 4(1) of Directive 2004/39/EC, which is subject
prudential requirements that institutions supervised under to the requirements imposed by that Directive, excluding
Directive 2013/36/EU shall comply with in relation to the the following:
following items:
(a) credit institutions;
(a) own funds requirements relating to entirely quantifiable,
uniform and standardised elements of credit risk, market
(b) local firms;
risk, operational risk and settlement risk;
(c) firms which are not authorised to provide the
(b) requirements limiting large exposures; ancillary service referred to in point (1) of Section
B of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC, which
provide only one or more of the investment
services and activities listed in points 1, 2, 4 and 5
(c) after the delegated act referred to in Article 460 has entered of Section A of Annex I to that Directive, and which
into force, liquidity requirements relating to entirely quan­ are not permitted to hold money or securities
tifiable, uniform and standardised elements of liquidity risk; belonging to their clients and which for that reason
may not at any time place themselves in debt with
those clients;
(d) reporting requirements related to points (a), (b) and (c) and
to leverage;
(3) "institution" means a credit institution or an investment
firm;.
(e) public disclosure requirements.
(4) 'local firm' means a firm dealing for its own account on
markets in financial futures or options or other
derivatives and on cash markets for the sole purpose of
hedging positions on derivatives markets, or dealing for
This Regulation does not govern publication requirements for
the accounts of other members of those markets and
competent authorities in the field of prudential regulation and
being guaranteed by clearing members of the same
supervision of institutions as set out in Directive 2013/36/EU.
markets, where responsibility for ensuring the
performance of contracts entered into by such a firm is
assumed by clearing members of the same markets;
Article 2
Supervisory powers
(5) 'insurance undertaking' means insurance undertaking as
For the purposes of ensuring compliance with this Regulation, defined in point (1) of Article 13 of Directive
competent authorities shall have the powers and shall follow 2009/138/EC of the European Parliament and of the
the procedures set out in Directive 2013/36/EU. Council of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up and
pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance
(Solvency II) ( 1 );
Article 3
(6) 'reinsurance undertaking' means reinsurance undertaking
Application of stricter requirements by institutions
as defined in point (4) of Article 13 of Directive
This Regulation shall not prevent institutions from holding own 2009/138/EC;
funds and their components in excess of, or applying measures
that are stricter than those required by this Regulation. ( 1 ) OJ L 335, 17.12.2009, p. 1.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/19
(7) 'collective investment undertaking' or 'CIU' means a (14) 'sponsor' means an institution other than an originator
UCITS as defined in Article 1(2) of Directive 2009/65/EC institution that establishes and manages an asset-backed
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July commercial paper programme or other securitisation
2009 on the coordination of laws, regulations and scheme that purchases exposures from third-party
administrative provisions relating to undertakings for entities;
collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) ( 1) ,
including, unless otherwise provided, third-country
entities which carry out similar activities, which are
(15) 'parent undertaking' means:
subject to supervision pursuant to Union law or to the
law of a third country which applies supervisory and
regulatory requirements at least equivalent to those
(a) a parent undertaking within the meaning of Articles
applied in the Union, an AIF as defined in Article 4(1)(a)
1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC;
of Directive 2011/61/EU of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment
Fund Managers ( 2 ), or a non-EU AIF as defined in
Article 4(1)(aa) of that Directive; (b) for the purposes of Section II of Chapters 3 and 4 of
Title VII and Title VIII of Directive 2013/36/EU and
Part Five of this Regulation, a parent undertaking
within the meaning of Article 1(1) of Directive
(8) 'public sector entity' means a non-commercial adminis­
83/349/EEC and any undertaking which effectively
trative body responsible to central governments, regional
exercises a dominant influence over another under­
governments or local authorities, or to authorities that
taking;
exercise the same responsibilities as regional governments
and local authorities, or a non-commercial undertaking
that is owned by or set up and sponsored by central
governments, regional governments or local authorities, (16) 'subsidiary' means:
and that has explicit guarantee arrangements, and may
include self-administered bodies governed by law that are
under public supervision; (a) a subsidiary undertaking within the meaning of
Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC;
(9) 'management body' means management body as defined
in point (7) of Article 3(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU; (b) a subsidiary undertaking within the meaning of
Article 1(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC and any under­
taking over which a parent undertaking effectively
exercises a dominant influence.
(10) 'senior management' means senior management as
defined in point (9) of Article 3(1) of Directive
2013/36/EU;
Subsidiaries of subsidiaries shall also be considered to be
subsidiaries of the undertaking that is their original
parent undertaking;
(11) "systemic risk" means systemic risk as defined in point
(10) of Article 3(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU;
(17) 'branch' means a place of business which forms a legally
dependent part of an institution and which carries out
(12) "model risk" means model risk as defined in point (11) of directly all or some of the transactions inherent in the
Article 3(1) of Directive 2013/36/EU; business of institutions;
(13) 'originator' means an entity which: (18) 'ancillary services undertaking' means an undertaking the
principal activity of which consists of owning or
managing property, managing data-processing services,
or a similar activity which is ancillary to the principal
(a) itself or through related entities, directly or indirectly, activity of one or more institutions;
was involved in the original agreement which created
the obligations or potential obligations of the debtor
or potential debtor giving rise to the exposure being
(19) 'asset management company' means an asset
securitised; or
management company as defined in point (5) of
Article 2 of Directive 2002/87/EC and an AIFM as
defined in Article 4(1)(b) of Directive 2011/61/EU,
(b) purchases a third party's exposures for its own including, unless otherwise provided, third country
account and then securitises them; entities, that carry out similar activities, that are subject
to the laws of a third country which applies supervisory
( 1 ) OJ L 302, 17.11.2009, p. 32. and regulatory requirements at least equivalent to those
( 2 ) OJ L 174, 1.7.2011, p. 1. applied in the Union;
L 176/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(20) 'financial holding company' means a financial institution, (27) 'financial sector entity' means any of the following:
the subsidiaries of which are exclusively or mainly insti­
tutions or financial institutions, at least one of such
subsidiaries being an institution, and which is not a (a) an institution;
mixed financial holding company;
(b) a financial institution;
(21) 'mixed financial holding company' means mixed financial
holding company as defined in point (15) of Article 2 of (c) an ancillary services undertaking included in the
Directive 2002/87/EC; consolidated financial situation of an institution;
(d) an insurance undertaking;
(22) 'mixed activity holding company' means a parent under­
taking, other than a financial holding company or an
institution or a mixed financial holding company, the (e) a third-country insurance undertaking;
subsidiaries of which include at least one institution;
(f) a reinsurance undertaking;
(23) 'third-country insurance undertaking' means third-
country insurance undertaking as defined in point (3) (g) a third-country reinsurance undertaking;
of Article 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC;
(h) an insurance holding company;
(24) 'third-country reinsurance undertaking' means third-
(i) a mixed-activity holding company
country reinsurance undertaking as defined in point (6)
of Article 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC;
(j) a mixed-activity insurance holding company as
defined in point (g) of Article 212(1) of Directive
(25) 'recognised third-country investment firm' means a firm 2009/138/EC;
meeting all of the following conditions:
(k) an undertaking excluded from the scope of Directive
2009/138/EC in accordance with Article 4 of that
(a) if it were established within the Union, it would be Directive;
covered by the definition of an investment firm;
(l) a third-country undertaking with a main business
comparable to any of the entities referred to in
(b) it is authorised in a third country; points (a) to (k);
(28) 'parent institution in a Member State' means an insti­
(c) it is subject to and complies with prudential rules tution in a Member State which has a institution or a
considered by the competent authorities as at least financial institution as a subsidiary or which holds a
as stringent as those laid down in this Regulation or participation in such an institution or financial insti­
in Directive 2013/36/EU; tution, and which is not itself a subsidiary of another
institution authorised in the same Member State, or of
a financial holding company or mixed financial holding
company set up in the same Member State;
(26) 'financial institution' means an undertaking other than an
institution, the principal activity of which is to acquire
holdings or to pursue one or more of the activities listed
(29) 'EU parent institution' means a parent institution in a
in points 2 to 12 and point 15 of Annex I to Directive
Member State which is not a subsidiary of another insti­
2013/36/EU, including a financial holding company, a
tution authorised in any Member State, or of a financial
mixed financial holding company, a payment institution
holding company or mixed financial holding company
within the meaning of Directive 2007/64/EC of the
set up in any Member State;
European Parliament and of the Council of 13 November
2007 on payment services in the internal market ( 1) , and
an asset management company, but excluding insurance (30) 'parent financial holding company in a Member State'
holding companies and mixed-activity insurance holding means a financial holding company which is not itself
companies as defined in point (g) of Article 212(1) of a subsidiary of an institution authorised in the same
Directive 2009/138/E; Member State, or of a financial holding company or
mixed financial holding company set up in the same
( 1 ) OJ L 319, 5.12.2007, p. 1. Member State;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/21
(31) 'EU parent financial holding company' means a parent (b) control;
financial holding company in a Member State which is
not a subsidiary of an institution authorised in any
Member State or of another financial holding company
or mixed financial holding company set up in any (c) a permanent link of both or all of them to the same
Member State; third person by a control relationship;
(32) 'parent mixed financial holding company in a Member (39) 'group of connected clients' means any of the following:
State' means a mixed financial holding company which is
not itself a subsidiary of an institution authorised in the
same Member State, or of a financial holding company or
(a) two or more natural or legal persons who, unless it is
mixed financial holding company set up in that same
shown otherwise, constitute a single risk because one
Member State;
of them, directly or indirectly, has control over the
other or others;
(33) 'EU parent mixed financial holding company' means a
parent mixed financial holding company in a Member
State which is not a subsidiary of an institution auth­ (b) two or more natural or legal persons between whom
orised in any Member State or of another financial there is no relationship of control as described in
holding company or mixed financial holding company point (a) but who are to be regarded as constituting
set up in any Member State; a single risk because they are so interconnected that,
if one of them were to experience financial problems,
in particular funding or repayment difficulties, the
other or all of the others would also be likely to
(34) 'central counterparty' or 'CCP' means a CCP as defined in encounter funding or repayment difficulties.
point (1) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012;
Notwithstanding points (a) and (b), where a central
(35) 'participation' means participation within the meaning of government has direct control over or is directly inter­
the first sentence of Article 17 of Fourth Council connected with more than one natural or legal person,
Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 on the annual the set consisting of the central government and all of
accounts of certain types of companies ( 1 ), or the the natural or legal persons directly or indirectly
ownership, direct or indirect, of 20 % or more of the controlled by it in accordance with point (a), or inter­
voting rights or capital of an undertaking; connected with it in accordance with point (b), may be
considered as not constituting a group of connected
clients. Instead the existence of a group of connected
clients formed by the central government and other
(36) 'qualifying holding' means a direct or indirect holding in
natural or legal persons may be assessed separately for
an undertaking which represents 10 % or more of the
each of the persons directly controlled by it in
capital or of the voting rights or which makes it possible
accordance with point (a), or directly interconnected
to exercise a significant influence over the management
with it in accordance with point (b), and all of the
of that undertaking;
natural and legal persons which are controlled by that
person according to point (a) or interconnected with that
person in accordance with point (b), including the central
(37) 'control' means the relationship between a parent under­ government. The same applies in cases of regional
taking and a subsidiary, as defined in Article 1 of governments or local authorities to which Article 115(2)
Directive 83/349/EEC, or the accounting standards to applies
which an institution is subject under Regulation (EC)
No 1606/2002, or a similar relationship between any
natural or legal person and an undertaking;
(40) 'competent authority' means a public authority or body
officially recognised by national law, which is empowered
by national law to supervise institutions as part of the
(38) 'close links' means a situation in which two or more supervisory system in operation in the Member State
natural or legal persons are linked in any of the concerned;
following ways:
(41) 'consolidating supervisor' means a competent authority
(a) participation in the form of ownership, direct or by responsible for the exercise of supervision on a
way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights consolidated basis of EU parent institutions and of insti­
or capital of an undertaking; tutions controlled by EU parent financial holding
companies or EU parent mixed financial holding
( 1 ) OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11. companies;
L 176/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(42) 'authorisation' means an instrument issued in any form The instruments referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) are
by the authorities by which the right to carry out the only financial instruments if their value is derived from
business is granted; the price of an underlying financial instrument or
another underlying item, a rate, or an index;
(43) 'home Member State' means the Member State in which
an institution has been granted authorisation;
(51) 'initial capital' means the amount and types of own funds
specified in Article 12 of Directive 2013/36/EU for credit
institutions and in Title IV of that Directive for
(44) 'host Member State' means the Member State in which an
investment firms;
institution has a branch or in which it provides services;
(45) 'ESCB central banks' means the national central banks
(52) 'operational risk' means the risk of loss resulting from
that are members of the European System of Central
inadequate or failed internal processes, people and
Banks (ESCB), and the European Central Bank (ECB);
systems or from external events, and includes legal risk;
(46) 'central banks' means the ESCB central banks and the
central banks of third countries;
(53) 'dilution risk' means the risk that an amount receivable is
reduced through cash or non-cash credits to the obligor;
(47) 'consolidated situation' means the situation that results
from applying the requirements of this Regulation in
accordance with Part One, Title II, Chapter 2 to an insti­
(54) 'probability of default' or 'PD' means the probability of
tution as if that institution formed, together with one or
default of a counterparty over a one year period;
more other entities, a single institution;
(48) 'consolidated basis' means on the basis of the
(55) 'loss given default' or 'LGD' means the ratio of the loss
consolidated situation;
on an exposure due to the default of a counterparty to
the amount outstanding at default;
(49) 'sub-consolidated basis' means on the basis of the
consolidated situation of a parent institution, financial
holding company or mixed financial holding company,
(56) 'conversion factor' means the ratio of the currently
excluding a sub-group of entities, or on the basis of the
undrawn amount of a commitment that could be
consolidated situation of a parent institution, financial
drawn and that would therefore be outstanding at
holding company or mixed financial holding company
default to the currently undrawn amount of the
that is not the ultimate parent institution, financial
commitment, the extent of the commitment being
holding company or mixed financial holding company;
determined by the advised limit, unless the unadvised
limit is higher;
(50) 'financial instrument' means any of the following:
(57) 'credit risk mitigation' means a technique used by an
(a) a contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of institution to reduce the credit risk associated with an
one party and a financial liability or equity exposure or exposures which that institution continues
instrument of another party; to hold;
(b) an instrument specified in Section C of Annex I to
Directive 2004/39/EC; (58) 'funded credit protection' means a technique of credit risk
mitigation where the reduction of the credit risk on the
exposure of an institution derives from the right of that
institution, in the event of the default of the counterparty
(c) a derivative financial instrument;
or on the occurrence of other specified credit events
relating to the counterparty, to liquidate, or to obtain
transfer or appropriation of, or to retain certain assets
(d) a primary financial instrument;
or amounts, or to reduce the amount of the exposure to,
or to replace it with, the amount of the difference
between the amount of the exposure and the amount
(e) a cash instrument. of a claim on the institution;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/23
(59) 'unfunded credit protection' means a technique of credit structure of which is intended to isolate the obligations
risk mitigation where the reduction of the credit risk on of the SSPE from those of the originator institution, and
the exposure of an institution derives from the obligation in which the holders of the beneficial interests have the
of a third party to pay an amount in the event of the right to pledge or exchange those interests without
default of the borrower or the occurrence of other restriction;
specified credit events;
(67) 'tranche' means a contractually established segment of
the credit risk associated with an exposure or a
(60) 'cash assimilated instrument' means a certificate of
number of exposures, where a position in the segment
deposit, a bond, including a covered bond, or any
entails a risk of credit loss greater than or less than a
other non-subordinated instrument, which has been
position of the same amount in each other such segment,
issued by an institution, for which the institution has
without taking account of credit protection provided by
already received full payment and which shall be uncon­
third parties directly to the holders of positions in the
ditionally reimbursed by the institution at its nominal
segment or in other segments;
value;
(68) 'marking to market' means the valuation of positions at
(61) 'securitisation' means a transaction or scheme, whereby
readily available close out prices that are sourced inde­
the credit risk associated with an exposure or pool of
pendently, including exchange prices, screen prices or
exposures is tranched, having both of the following char­
quotes from several independent reputable brokers;
acteristics:
(69) 'marking to model' means any valuation which has to be
(a) payments in the transaction or scheme are dependent benchmarked, extrapolated or otherwise calculated from
upon the performance of the exposure or pool of one or more market inputs;
exposures;
(70) 'independent price verification' means a process by which
(b) the subordination of tranches determines the market prices or marking to model inputs are regularly
distribution of losses during the ongoing life of the verified for accuracy and independence;
transaction or scheme;
(71) 'eligible capital' means the sum of the following:
(62) 'securitisation position' means an exposure to a securiti­
sation;
(a) Tier 1 capital as referred to in Article 25;
(63) 're-securitisation' means securitisation where the risk
(b) Tier 2 capital as referred to in Article 71 that is equal
associated with an underlying pool of exposures is
to or less than one third of Tier 1 capital;
tranched and at least one of the underlying exposures
is a securitisation position;
(72) 'recognised exchange' means an exchange which meets all
of the following conditions:
(64) 're-securitisation position' means an exposure to a re-
securitisation;
(a) it is a regulated market;
(65) 'credit enhancement' means a contractual arrangement
whereby the credit quality of a position in a securitisation
(b) it has a clearing mechanism whereby contracts listed
is improved in relation to what it would have been if the
in Annex II are subject to daily margin requirements
enhancement had not been provided, including the
which, in the opinion of the competent authorities,
enhancement provided by more junior tranches in the
provide appropriate protection;
securitisation and other types of credit protection;
(73) 'discretionary pension benefits' means enhanced pension
(66) 'securitisation special purpose entity' or 'SSPE' means a benefits granted on a discretionary basis by an institution
corporation trust or other entity, other than an insti­ to an employee as part of that employee's variable
tution, organised for carrying out a securitisation or secu­ remuneration package, which do not include accrued
ritisations, the activities of which are limited to those benefits granted to an employee under the terms of the
appropriate to accomplishing that objective, the company pension scheme;
L 176/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(74) 'mortgage lending value' means the value of immovable holds the rights to the securities or commodities and
property as determined by a prudent assessment of the the agreement does not allow an institution to
future marketability of the property taking into account transfer or pledge a particular security or
long-term sustainable aspects of the property, the normal commodity to more than one counterparty at one
and local market conditions, the current use and alter­ time, subject to a commitment to repurchase them;
native appropriate uses of the property;
(b) substituted securities or commodities of the same
(75) 'residential property' means a residence which is occupied description at a specified price on a future date spec­
by the owner or the lessee of the residence, including the ified, or to be specified, by the transferor, being a
right to inhabit an apartment in housing cooperatives repurchase agreement for the institution selling the
located in Sweden; securities or commodities and a reverse repurchase
agreement for the institution buying them;
(76) 'market value' means, for the purposes of immovable
(83) 'repurchase transaction' means any transaction governed
property, the estimated amount for which the property
by a repurchase agreement or a reverse repurchase
should exchange on the date of valuation between a
agreement;
willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm's-length trans­
action after proper marketing wherein the parties had
each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without being
under compulsion; (84) 'simple repurchase agreement' means a repurchase trans­
action of a single asset, or of similar, non-complex assets,
as opposed to a basket of assets;
(77) 'applicable accounting framework' means the accounting
standards to which the institution is subject under Regu­
lation (EC) No 1606/2002 or Directive 86/635/EEC; (85) 'positions held with trading intent' means any of the
following:
(78) 'one-year default rate' means the ratio between the
(a) proprietary positions and positions arising from
number of defaults occurred during a period that starts
client servicing and market making;
from one year prior to a date T and the number of
obligors assigned to this grade or pool one year prior
to that date;
(b) positions intended to be resold short term;
(79) 'speculative immovable property financing' means loans
(c) positions intended to benefit from actual or expected
for the purposes of the acquisition of or development or
short term price differences between buying and
construction on land in relation to immovable property,
selling prices or from other price or interest rate
or of and in relation to such property, with the intention
variations;
of reselling for profit;
(86) 'trading book' means all positions in financial
(80) 'trade finance' means financing, including guarantees,
instruments and commodities held by an institution
connected to the exchange of goods and services
either with trading intent, or in order to hedge
through financial products of fixed short-term maturity,
positions held with trading intent;
generally of less than one year, without automatic
rollover;
(87) 'multilateral trading facility' means multilateral trading
facility as defined in point 15 of Article 4 of Directive
(81) 'officially supported export credits' means loans or credits
2004/39/EC;
to finance the export of goods and services for which an
official export credit agency provides guarantees,
insurance or direct financing;
(88) 'qualifying central counterparty' means a central
counterparty that has been either authorised in
accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EU)
(82) 'repurchase agreement' and 'reverse repurchase No 648/2012 or recognised in accordance with Article 25
agreement' mean any agreement in which an institution of that Regulation;
or its counterparty transfers securities or commodities or
guaranteed rights relating to either of the following:
(89) 'default fund' means a fund established by a CCP in
accordance with Article 42 of Regulation (EU)
(a) title to securities or commodities where that No 648/2012 and used in accordance with Article 45
guarantee is issued by a recognised exchange which of that Regulation;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/25
(90) 'pre-funded contribution to the default fund of a CCP' (100) 'accumulated other comprehensive income' has the same
means a contribution to the default fund of a CCP that is meaning as under International Accounting Standard
paid in by an institution; (IAS) 1, as applicable under Regulation (EC)
No 1606/2002;
(91) 'trade exposure' means a current exposure, including a
variation margin due to the clearing member but not
(101) 'basic own funds' means basic own funds within the
yet received, and any potential future exposure of a
meaning of Article 88 of Directive 2009/138/EC;
clearing member or a client, to a CCP arising from
contracts and transactions listed in points (a) to (e) of
Article 301(1), as well as initial margin;
(102) 'Tier 1 own-fund insurance items' means basic own-fund
items of undertakings subject to the requirements of
(92) 'regulated market' means regulated market as defined in Directive 2009/138/EC where those items are classified
point (14) of Article 4 of Directive 2004/39/EC; in Tier 1 within the meaning of Directive 2009/138/EC
in accordance with Article 94(1) of that Directive;
(93) 'leverage' means the relative size of an institution's assets,
off-balance sheet obligations and contingent obligations
(103) 'additional Tier 1 own-fund insurance items' means basic
to pay or to deliver or to provide collateral, including
own-fund items of undertakings subject to the
obligations from received funding, made commitments,
requirements of Directive 2009/138/EC where those
derivates or repurchase agreements, but excluding
items are classified in Tier 1 within the meaning of
obligations which can only be enforced during the liqui­
Directive 2009/138/EC in accordance with Article 94(1)
dation of an institution, compared to that institution's
of that Directive and the inclusion of those items is
own funds;
limited by the delegated acts adopted in accordance
with Article 99 of that Directive;
(94) 'risk of excessive leverage' means the risk resulting from
an institution's vulnerability due to leverage or contingent
leverage that may require unintended corrective measures (104) 'Tier 2 own-fund insurance items' means basic own-fund
to its business plan, including distressed selling of assets items of undertakings subject to the requirements of
which might result in losses or in valuation adjustments Directive 2009/138/EC where those items are classified
to its remaining assets; in Tier 2 within the meaning of Directive 2009/138/EC
in accordance with Article 94(2) of that Directive;
(95) 'credit risk adjustment' means the amount of specific and
general loan loss provision for credit risks that has been
(105) 'Tier 3 own-fund insurance items' means basic own-fund
recognised in the financial statements of the institution in
insurance items of undertakings subject to the
accordance with the applicable accounting framework;
requirements of Directive 2009/138/EC where those
items are classified in Tier 3 within the meaning of
Directive 2009/138/EC in accordance with Article 94(3)
(96) 'internal hedge' means a position that materially offsets of that Directive;
the component risk elements between a trading book and
a non-trading book position or sets of positions;
(106) 'deferred tax assets' has the same meaning as under the
applicable accounting framework;
(97) 'reference obligation' means an obligation used for the
purposes of determining the cash settlement value of a
credit derivative;
(107) 'deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability' means
deferred tax assets the future value of which may be
(98) external credit assessment institution' or 'ECAI' means a realised only in the event the institution generates
credit rating agency that is registered or certified in taxable profit in the future;
accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September
2009 on credit rating agencies ( 1 ) or a central bank
issuing credit ratings which are exempt from the appli­
(108) 'deferred tax liabilities' has the same meaning as under
the applicable accounting framework;
cation of Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009;
(99) 'nominated ECAI' means an ECAI nominated by an insti­ (109) 'defined benefit pension fund assets' means the assets of a
tution; defined pension fund or plan, as applicable, calculated
after they have been reduced by the amount of
( 1 ) OJ L 302, 17.11.2009, p. 1. obligations under the same fund or plan;
L 176/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(110) 'distributions' means the payment of dividends or interest (121) 'profit' has the same meaning as under the applicable
in any form; accounting framework;
(111) 'financial undertaking' has the same meaning as under (122) 'reciprocal cross holding' means a holding by an insti­
points (25)(b) and (d) of Article 13 of Directive tution of the own funds instruments or other capital
2009/138/EC; instruments issued by financial sector entities where
those entities also hold own funds instruments issued
by the institution;
(112) 'funds for general banking risk' has the same meaning as
under Article 38 of Directive 86/635/EEC;
(123) 'retained earnings' means profits and losses brought
forward as a result of the final application of profit or
(113) 'goodwill' has the same meaning as under the applicable loss under the applicable accounting framework;
accounting framework;
(124) 'share premium account' has the same meaning as under
(114) 'indirect holding' means any exposure to an intermediate the applicable accounting framework;
entity that has an exposure to capital instruments issued
by a financial sector entity where, in the event the capital
instruments issued by the financial sector entity were
permanently written off, the loss that the institution (125) 'temporary differences' has the same meaning as under
would incur as a result would not be materially the applicable accounting framework;
different from the loss the institution would incur from
a direct holding of those capital instruments issued by
the financial sector entity;
(126) 'synthetic holding' means an investment by an institution
in a financial instrument the value of which is directly
linked to the value of the capital instruments issued by a
(115) 'intangible assets' has the same meaning as under the financial sector entity;
applicable accounting framework and includes goodwill;
(127) 'cross-guarantee scheme' means a scheme that meets all
(116) 'other capital instruments' means capital instruments the following conditions:
issued by financial sector entities that do not qualify as
Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2
instruments or Tier 1 own-fund insurance items,
additional Tier 1 own-fund insurance items, Tier 2 (a) the institutions fall within the same institutional
own-fund insurance items or Tier 3 own-fund protection scheme as referred to in Article 113(7);
insurance items;
(b) the institutions are fully consolidated in accordance
(117) 'other reserves' means reserves within the meaning of the with Article 1(1)(b), (c) or (d) or Article 1(2) of
applicable accounting framework that are required to be Directive 83/349/EEC and are included in the super­
disclosed under the applicable accounting standard, vision on a consolidated basis of an institution which
excluding any amounts already included in accumulated is a parent institution in a Member State in
other comprehensive income or retained earnings; accordance with Part One, Title II, Chapter 2 of
this Regulation and subject to own funds require­
ments;
(118) 'own funds' means the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2
capital;
(c) the parent institution in a Member State and the
subsidiaries are established in the same Member
(119) 'own funds instruments' means capital instruments issued State and are subject to authorisation and supervision
by the institution that qualify as Common Equity Tier 1, by the same competent authority;
Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments;
(d) the parent institution in a Member State and the
(120) 'minority interest' means the amount of Common Equity subsidiaries have entered into a contractual or
Tier 1 capital of a subsidiary of an institution that is statutory liability arrangement which protects those
attributable to natural or legal persons other than those institutions and in particular ensures their liquidity
included in the prudential scope of consolidation of the and solvency, in order to avoid bankruptcy in the
institution; case that it becomes necessary;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/27
(e) arrangements are in place to ensure the prompt (1) 'exposure' means an asset or off-balance sheet item;
provision of financial means in terms of capital and
liquidity if required under the contractual or statutory
liability arrangement referred to in point (d);
(2) 'loss' means economic loss, including material discount
effects, and material direct and indirect costs associated
(f) the adequacy of the arrangements referred to in with collecting on the instrument;
points (d) and (e) is monitored on a regular basis
by the competent authority;
(3) 'expected loss' or 'EL' means the ratio of the amount
expected to be lost on an exposure from a potential
(g) the minimum period of notice for a voluntary exit of
default of a counterparty or dilution over a one year
a subsidiary from the liability arrangement is 10
period to the amount outstanding at default.
years;
(h) the competent authority is empowered to prohibit a
TITLE II
voluntary exit of a subsidiary from the liability
arrangement; LEVEL OF APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS
CHAPTER 1
(128) 'distributable items' means the amount of the profits at Application of requirements on an individual basis
the end of the last financial year plus any profits brought
Article 6
forward and reserves available for that purpose before
distributions to holders of own funds instruments less General principles
any losses brought forward, profits which are non-
1. Institutions shall comply with the obligations laid down in
distributable pursuant to provisions in legislation or the
Parts Two to Five and Eight on an individual basis.
institution's bye-laws and sums placed to non-
distributable reserves in accordance with applicable
national law or the statutes of the institution, those
losses and reserves being determined on the basis of
the individual accounts of the institution and not on 2. Every institution which is either a subsidiary in the
the basis of the consolidated accounts. Member State where it is authorised and supervised, or a
parent undertaking, and every institution included in the
consolidation pursuant to Article 19, shall not be required to
comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 89, 90 and
2. Where reference in this Regulation is made to real estate
91 on an individual basis.
or residential or commercial immovable property or a mortgage
on such property, it shall include shares in Finnish residential
housing companies operating in accordance with the Finnish
Housing Company Act of 1991 or subsequent equivalent legis­
3. Every institution which is either a parent undertaking, or a
lation. Member States or their competent authorities may allow
subsidiary, and every institution included in the consolidation
shares constituting an equivalent indirect holding of real estate
pursuant to Article 19, shall not be required to comply with the
to be treated as a direct holding of real estate provided that such
obligations laid down in Part Eight on an individual basis.
an indirect holding is specifically regulated in the national law
of the Member State concerned and that, when pledged as
collateral, it provides equivalent protection to creditors.
4. Credit institutions and investment firms that are auth­
orised to provide the investment services and activities listed
3. Trade finance as referred to in point (80) of paragraph 1 is
in points (3) and (6) of Section A of Annex I to Directive
generally uncommitted and requires satisfactory supporting
2004/39/EC shall comply with the obligations laid down in
transactional documentation for each drawdown request
Part Six on an individual basis. Pending the report from the
enabling refusal of the finance in the event of any doubt
Commission in accordance with Article 508(3), competent
about credit-worthiness or the supporting transactional docu­
authorities may exempt investment firms from compliance
mentation. Repayment of trade finance exposures is usually
with the obligations laid down in Part Six taking into account
independent of the borrower, the funds instead coming from
the nature, scale and complexity of the investment firms' activ­
cash received from importers or resulting from proceeds of the
ities.
sales of the underlying goods.
Article 5 5. Institutions, except for investment firms referred to in
Article 95(1) and Article 96(1) and institutions for which
Definitions specific to capital requirements for credit risk
competent authorities have exercised the derogation specified
For the purposes of Part Three, Title II, the following definitions in Article 7(1) or (3), shall comply with the obligations laid
shall apply: down in Part Seven on an individual basis.
L 176/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 7 (b) the risk evaluation, measurement and control procedures
relevant for consolidated supervision cover the parent insti­
Derogation to the application of prudential requirements
tution in a Member State.
on an individual basis
1. Competent authorities may waive the application of
Article 6(1) to any subsidiary of an institution, where both
The competent authority which makes use of this paragraph
the subsidiary and the institution are subject to authorisation
shall inform the competent authorities of all other Member
and supervision by the Member State concerned, and the
States.
subsidiary is included in the supervision on a consolidated
basis of the institution which is the parent undertaking, and
all of the following conditions are satisfied, in order to ensure
that own funds are distributed adequately between the parent
Article 8
undertaking and the subsidiary:
Derogation to the application of liquidity requirements on
an individual basis
(a) there is no current or foreseen material practical or legal 1. The competent authorities may waive in full or in part the
impediment to the prompt transfer of own funds or application of Part Six to an institution and to all or some of its
repayment of liabilities by its parent undertaking; subsidiaries in the Union and supervise them as a single
liquidity sub-group so long as they fulfil all of the following
conditions:
(b) either the parent undertaking satisfies the competent
authority regarding the prudent management of the
subsidiary and has declared, with the permission of the (a) the parent institution on a consolidated basis or a subsidiary
competent authority, that it guarantees the commitments institution on a sub-consolidated basis complies with the
entered into by the subsidiary, or the risks in the subsidiary obligations laid down in Part Six;
are of negligible interest;
(b) the parent institution on a consolidated basis or the
(c) the risk evaluation, measurement and control procedures of subsidiary institution on a sub-consolidated basis monitors
the parent undertaking cover the subsidiary; and has oversight at all times over the liquidity positions of
all institutions within the group or sub-group, that are
subject to the waiver and ensures a sufficient level of
liquidity for all of these institutions;
(d) the parent undertaking holds more than 50 % of the voting
rights attached to shares in the capital of the subsidiary or
has the right to appoint or remove a majority of the
members of the management body of the subsidiary. (c) the institutions have entered into contracts that, to the satis­
faction of the competent authorities, provide for the free
movement of funds between them to enable them to
meet their individual and joint obligations as they come
2. Competent authorities may exercise the option provided due;
for in paragraph 1 where the parent undertaking is a financial
holding company or a mixed financial holding company set up
in the same Member State as the institution, provided that it is
subject to the same supervision as that exercised over institu­ (d) there is no current or foreseen material practical or legal
tions, and in particular to the standards laid down in impediment to the fulfilment of the contracts referred
Article 11(1). to in (c).
3. Competent authorities may waive the application of By 1 January 2014 the Commission shall report to the
Article 6(1) to a parent institution in a Member State where European Parliament and the Council on any legal obstacles
that institution is subject to authorisation and supervision by which are capable of rendering impossible the application of
the Member State concerned, and it is included in the super­ point (c) of the first subparagraph and is invited to make a
vision on a consolidated basis, and all the following conditions legislative proposal, if appropriate, by 31 December 2015 on
are satisfied, in order to ensure that own funds are distributed which of those obstacles should be removed.
adequately among the parent undertaking and the subsidiaries:
2. The competent authorities may waive in full or in part the
(a) there is no current or foreseen material practical or legal application of Part Six to an institution and to all or some of its
impediment to the prompt transfer of own funds or subsidiaries where all institutions of the single liquidity sub-
repayment of liabilities to the parent institution in a group are authorised in the same Member State and provided
Member State; that the conditions in paragraph 1 are fulfilled.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/29
3. Where institutions of the single liquidity sub-group are 2. The treatment set out in paragraph 1 shall be permitted
authorised in several Member States, paragraph 1 shall only only where the parent institution demonstrates fully to the
be applied after following the procedure laid down in Article 21 competent authorities the circumstances and arrangements,
and only to the institutions whose competent authorities agree including legal arrangements, by virtue of which there is no
about the following elements: material practical or legal impediment, and none are foreseen,
to the prompt transfer of own funds, or repayment of liabilities
when due by the subsidiary to its parent undertaking.
(a) their assessment of the compliance of the organisation and
of the treatment of liquidity risk with the conditions set out
in Article 86 of Directive 2013/36/EU across the single
liquidity sub-group; 3. Where a competent authority exercises the discretion laid
down in paragraph 1, it shall on a regular basis and not less
than once a year inform the competent authorities of all the
other Member States of the use made of paragraph 1 and of the
(b) the distribution of amounts, location and ownership of the
circumstances and arrangements referred to in paragraph 2.
required liquid assets to be held within the single liquidity
Where the subsidiary is in a third country, the competent auth­
sub-group;
orities shall provide the same information to the competent
authorities of that third country as well.
(c) the determination of minimum amounts of liquid assets to
be held by institutions for which the application of Part Six
will be waived;
Article 10
Waiver for credit institutions permanently affiliated to a
central body
(d) the need for stricter parameters than those set out in Part
Six; 1. Competent authorities may, in accordance with national
law, partially or fully waive the application of the requirements
set out in Parts Two to Eight to one or more credit institutions
(e) unrestricted sharing of complete information between the situated in the same Member State and which are permanently
competent authorities; affiliated to a central body which supervises them and which is
established in the same Member State, if the following
conditions are met:
(f) a full understanding of the implications of such a waiver.
(a) the commitments of the central body and affiliated insti­
4. Competent authorities may also apply paragraphs 1, 2 and
tutions are joint and several liabilities or the commitments
3 to institutions which are members of the same institutional
of its affiliated institutions are entirely guaranteed by the
protection scheme referred to in Article 113(7)(b), provided that
central body;
they meet all the conditions laid down in Article 113(7), and to
other institutions linked by a relationship referred to in
Article 113(6) provided that they meet all the conditions laid
down therein. Competent authorities shall in that case
(b) the solvency and liquidity of the central body and of all the
determine one of the institutions subject to the waiver to
affiliated institutions are monitored as a whole on the basis
meet Part Six on the basis of the consolidated situation of all
of consolidated accounts of these institutions;
institutions of the single liquidity sub-group.
5. Where a waiver has been granted under paragraph 1 or
(c) the management of the central body is empowered to issue
paragraph 2, the competent authorities may also apply
instructions to the management of the affiliated institutions.
Article 86 of Directive 2013/36/EU, or parts thereof, at the
level of the single liquidity sub-group and waive the application
of Article 86 of Directive 2013/36/EU, or parts thereof, on an
individual basis.
Member States may maintain and make use of existing national
legislation regarding the application of the waiver referred to in
the first subparagraph as long as it does not conflict with this
Article 9 Regulation and Directive 2013/36/EU.
Individual consolidation method
1. Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article and to
Article 144(3) of Directive 2013/36/EU, the competent auth­ 2. Where the competent authorities are satisfied that the
orities may permit on a case by case basis parent institutions to conditions set out in paragraph 1 are met, and where the
incorporate in the calculation of their requirement under liabilities or commitments of the central body are entirely guar­
Article 6(1) subsidiaries which meet the conditions laid down anteed by the affiliated institutions, the competent authorities
in points (c) and (d) of Article 7(1), and whose material may waive the application of Parts Two to Eight to the central
exposures or material liabilities are to that parent institution. body on an individual basis.
L 176/30 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
CHAPTER 2 5. In addition to the requirements in paragraphs 1 to 4, and
without prejudice to other provisions of this Regulation and
Prudential consolidation
Directive 2013/36/EU, when it is justified for supervisory
S e c t i o n 1 purposes by the specificities of the risk or of the capital
structure of an institution or where Member States adopt
A p p l i c a t i o n o f r e q u i r e m e n t s o n a national laws requiring the structural separation of activities
c o n s o l i d a t e d b a s i s within a banking group, competent authorities may require
the structurally separated institutions to comply with the
Article 11
obligations laid down in Parts Two to Four and Parts Six to
General treatment Eight of this Regulation and in Title VII of Directive
2013/36/EU on a sub-consolidated basis.
1. Parent institutions in a Member State shall comply, to the
extent and in the manner prescribed in Article 18, with the
obligations laid down in Parts Two to Four and Part Seven
on the basis of their consolidated situation. The parent under­
takings and their subsidiaries subject to this Regulation shall set
Applying the approach set out in the first subparagraph shall be
up a proper organisational structure and appropriate internal
without prejudice to effective supervision on a consolidated
control mechanisms in order to ensure that the data required
basis and shall neither entail disproportionate adverse effects
for consolidation are duly processed and forwarded. In
on the whole or parts of the financial system in other
particular, they shall ensure that subsidiaries not subject to
Member States or in the Union as a whole nor form or
this Regulation implement arrangements, processes and mech­
create an obstacle to the functioning of the internal market.
anisms to ensure a proper consolidation.
2. Institutions controlled by a parent financial holding
company or a parent mixed financial holding company in a Article 12
Member State shall comply, to the extent and in the manner
Financial holding company or mixed financial holding
prescribed in Article 18, with the obligations laid down in Parts
company with both a subsidiary credit institution and a
Two to Four and Part Seven on the basis of the consolidated
subsidiary investment firm
situation of that financial holding company or mixed financial
holding company.
Where a financial holding company or a mixed financial
holding company has at least one credit institution and one
investment firm as subsidiaries, the requirements that apply
on the basis of the consolidated situation of the financial
Where more than one institution is controlled by a parent
holding company or of the mixed financial holding company
financial holding company or by a parent mixed financial
shall apply to the credit institution.
holding company in a Member State, the first subparagraph
shall apply only to the institution to which supervision on a
consolidated basis applies in accordance with Article 111 of
Directive 2013/36/EU.
Article 13
Application of disclosure requirements on a consolidated
3. EU parent institutions and institutions controlled by an
basis
EU parent financial holding company and institutions controlled
by an EU parent mixed financial holding company shall comply
1. EU parent institutions shall comply with the obligations
with the obligations laid down in Part Six on the basis of the
laid down in Part Eight on the basis of their consolidated situ­
consolidated situation of that parent institution, financial
ation.
holding company or mixed financial holding company, if the
group comprises one or more credit institutions or investment
firms that are authorised to provide the investment services and
activities listed in points (3) and (6) of Section A of Annex I to
Directive 2004/39/EC. Pending the report from the Commission
Significant subsidiaries of EU parent institutions and those
in accordance with Article 508(2), and if the group comprises
subsidiaries which are of material significance for their local
only investment firms, competent authorities may exempt
market shall disclose the information specified in Articles
investment firms from compliance with the obligations laid
437, 438, 440, 442, 450, 451 and 453, on an individual or
down in Part Six on a consolidated basis, taking into account
sub-consolidated basis.
the nature, scale and complexity of the investment firm's activ­
ities.
4. Where Article 10 is applied, the central body referred to 2. Institutions controlled by an EU parent financial holding
in that Article shall comply with the requirements of Parts Two company or EU parent mixed financial holding company shall
to Eight on the basis of the consolidated situation of the whole comply with the obligations laid down in Part Eight on the
as constituted by the central body together with its affiliated basis of the consolidated situation of that financial holding
institutions. company or mixed financial holding company.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/31
Significant subsidiaries of EU parent financial holding Article 15
companies or EU parent mixed holding companies and those
Derogation to the application of own funds requirements
subsidiaries which are of material significance for their local
on a consolidated basis for groups of investment firms
market shall disclose the information specified in Articles
437, 438, 440, 442, 450, 451 and 453 on an individual or 1. The consolidating supervisor may waive, on a case-by-case
sub-consolidated basis. basis, the application of Part Three of this Regulation and Title
VII, Chapter 4 of Directive 2013/36/EU on a consolidated basis
provided that the following conditions exist:
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply in full or in part to EU
parent institutions, institutions controlled by an EU parent (a) each EU investment firm in the group uses the alternative
financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial calculation of total risk exposure amount referred to in
holding company, to the extent that they are included within Article 95(2);
equivalent disclosures provided on a consolidated basis by a
parent undertaking established in a third country.
(b) all investment firms in the group fall within the categories
in Articles 95(1) and 96(1);
4. Where Article 10 is applied, the central body referred to
in that Article shall comply with the requirements of Part Eight
on the basis of the consolidated situation of the central body. (c) each EU investment firm in the group meets the
Article 18(1) shall apply to the central body and the affiliated requirements imposed in Article 95 on an individual basis
institutions shall be treated as the subsidiaries of the central and at the same time deducts from its Common Equity Tier
body. 1 items any contingent liability in favour of investment
firms, financial institutions, asset management companies
and ancillary services undertakings, which would otherwise
be consolidated;
Article 14
Application of requirements of Part Five on a consolidated (d) any financial holding company which is the parent financial
basis holding company in a Member State of any investment firm
in the group holds at least as much capital, defined here as
1. Parent undertakings and their subsidiaries subject to this
the sum of the items referred to in Articles 26(1), 51(1) and
Regulation shall meet the obligations laid down in Part Five on
62(1), as to cover the sum of the following:
a consolidated or sub-consolidated basis, to ensure that their
arrangements, processes and mechanisms required by those
provisions are consistent and well-integrated and that any
data and information relevant to the purpose of supervision
(i) the sum of the full book value of any holdings,
can be produced. In particular, they shall ensure that
subordinated claims and instruments referred to in
subsidiaries not subject to this Regulation implement arrange­
Article 36(1)(h) and (i), Article 56(1)(c) and (d), and
ments, processes and mechanisms to ensure compliance with
Article 66(1)(c) and (d) in investment firms, financial
those provisions.
institutions, asset management companies and ancillary
services undertakings which would otherwise be consoli­
dated; and
2. Institutions shall apply an additional risk weight in
accordance with Article 407 when applying Article 92 on a (ii) the total amount of any contingent liability in favour of
consolidated or sub-consolidated basis if the requirements of investment firms, financial institutions, asset
Articles 405 or 406 are breached at the level of an entity management companies and ancillary services under­
established in a third country included in the consolidation in takings which would otherwise be consolidated;
accordance with Article 18 if the breach is material in relation
to the overall risk profile of the group.
(e) the group does not include credit institutions.
3. Obligations resulting from Part Five concerning subsidi­
aries, not themselves subject to this Regulation, shall not apply Where the criteria in the first subparagraph are met, each EU
if the EU parent institution or institutions controlled by an EU investment firm shall have in place systems to monitor and
parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial control the sources of capital and funding of all financial
holding company, can demonstrate to the competent authorities holding companies, investment firms, financial institutions,
that the application of Part Five is unlawful under the laws of asset management companies and ancillary services under­
the third country where the subsidiary is established. takings within the group.
L 176/32 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. The competent authorities may also apply the waiver if S e c t i o n 2
the financial holding companies holds a lower amount of own
M e t h o d s f o r p r u d e n t i a l c o n s o l i d a t i o n
funds than the amount calculated under paragraph 1(d), but no
lower than the sum of the own funds requirements imposed on Article 18
an individual basis to investment firms, financial institutions,
asset management companies and ancillary services under­ Methods for prudential consolidation
takings which would otherwise be consolidated and the total
1. The institutions that are required to comply with the
amount of any contingent liability in favour of investment
requirements referred to in Section 1 on the basis of their
firms, financial institutions, asset management companies and
consolidated situation shall carry out a full consolidation of
ancillary services undertakings which would otherwise be
all institutions and financial institutions that are its subsidiaries
consolidated. For the purposes of this paragraph, the own
or, where relevant, the subsidiaries of the same parent financial
funds requirement for investment undertakings of third coun­
holding company or mixed parent financial holding company.
tries, financial institutions, asset management companies and
Paragraphs 2 to 8 of this Article shall not apply where Part Six
ancillary services undertakings is a notional own funds
applies on the basis of an institution's consolidated situation.
requirement.
2. However, the competent authorities may on a case-by-case
basis permit proportional consolidation according to the share
of capital that the parent undertaking holds in the subsidiary.
Article 16
Proportional consolidation may only be permitted where all of
Derogation to the application of the leverage ratio the following conditions are fulfilled:
requirements on a consolidated basis for groups of
investment firms
Where all entities in a group of investment firms, including the
(a) the liability of the parent undertaking is limited to the share
parent entity, are investment firms that are exempt from the
of capital that the parent undertaking holds in the
application of the requirements laid down in Part Seven on an
subsidiary in view of the liability of the other shareholders
individual basis in accordance with Article 6(5), the parent
or members;
investment firm may choose not to apply the requirements
laid down in Part Seven on a consolidated basis.
(b) the solvency of those other shareholders or members is
satisfactory;
Article 17
Supervision of investment firms waived from the (c) the liability of the other shareholders and members is clearly
application of own funds requirements on a consolidated established in a legally binding way.
basis
1. Investment firms in a group which has been granted the
waiver provided for in Article 15 shall notify the competent
3. Where undertakings are linked by a relationship within
authorities of the risks which could undermine their financial
the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC, the
positions, including those associated with the composition and
competent authorities shall determine how consolidation is to
sources of their own funds, internal capital and funding.
be carried out.
4. The consolidating supervisor shall require the proportional
2. Where the competent authorities responsible for the consolidation according to the share of capital held of partici­
prudential supervision of the investment firm waive the pations in institutions and financial institutions managed by an
obligation of supervision on a consolidated basis as provided undertaking included in the consolidation together with one or
for in Article 15, they shall take other appropriate measures to more undertakings not included in the consolidation, where
monitor the risks, notably large exposures, of the whole group, those undertakings' liability is limited to the share of the
including any undertakings not located in a Member State. capital they hold.
5. In the case of participations or capital ties other than
those referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent auth­
3. Where the competent authorities responsible for the orities shall determine whether and how consolidation is to be
prudential supervision of the investment firm waive the appli­ carried out. In particular, they may permit or require use of the
cation of own funds requirements on a consolidated basis as equity method. That method shall not, however, constitute
provided for in Article 15, the requirements of Part Eight shall inclusion of the undertakings concerned in supervision on a
apply on an individual basis. consolidated basis.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/33
6. The competent authorities shall determine whether and (a) EUR 10 million;
how consolidation is to be carried out in the following cases:
(b) 1 % of the total amount of assets and off-balance sheet
(a) where, in the opinion of the competent authorities, an
items of the parent undertaking or the undertaking that
institution exercises a significant influence over one or
holds the participation.
more institutions or financial institutions, but without
holding a participation or other capital ties in these institu­
tions; and
2. The competent authorities responsible for exercising
supervision on a consolidated basis pursuant to Article 111
(b) where two or more institutions or financial institutions are of Directive 2013/36/EU may on a case-by-case basis decide
placed under single management other than pursuant to a in the following cases that an institution, financial institution
contract or clauses of their memoranda or Articles of associ­ or ancillary services undertaking which is a subsidiary or in
ation. which a participation is held need not be included in the
consolidation:
In particular, the competent authorities may permit, or require
use of, the method provided for in Article 12 of Directive (a) where the undertaking concerned is situated in a third
83/349/EEC. That method shall not, however, constitute country where there are legal impediments to the transfer
inclusion of the undertakings concerned in consolidated super­ of the necessary information;
vision.
(b) where the undertaking concerned is of negligible interest
7. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
only with respect to the objectives of monitoring credit
specify conditions according to which consolidation shall be
institutions;
carried out in the cases referred to in paragraphs 2 to 6 of
this Article.
(c) where, in the opinion of the competent authorities
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to responsible for exercising supervision on a consolidated
the Commission by 31 December 2016. basis, the consolidation of the financial situation of the
undertaking concerned would be inappropriate or
misleading as far as the objectives of the supervision of
credit institutions are concerned.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
3. Where, in the cases referred to in paragraph 1 and point
(b) of paragraph 2, several undertakings meet the criteria set out
therein, they shall nevertheless be included in the consolidation
8. Where consolidated supervision is required pursuant to where collectively they are of non-negligible interest with
Article 111 of Directive 2013/36/EU, ancillary services under­ respect to the specified objectives.
takings and asset management companies as defined in point
(5) of Article 2 of Directive 2002/87/EC shall be included in
consolidations in the cases, and in accordance with the
methods, laid down in this Article. Article 20
Joint decisions on prudential requirements
1. The competent authorities shall work together, in full
S e c t i o n 3
consultation:
S c o p e o f p r u d e n t i a l c o n s o l i d a t i o n
Article 19
(a) in the case of applications for the permissions referred to in
Entities excluded from the scope of prudential
Article 143(1), Article 151(4) and (9), Article 283,
consolidation
Article 312(2) and Article363 respectively submitted by
1. An institution, financial institution or an ancillary services an EU parent institution and its subsidiaries, or jointly by
undertaking which is a subsidiary or an undertaking in which a the subsidiaries of an EU parent financial holding company
participation is held, need not to be included in the consoli­ or EU parent mixed financial holding company, to decide
dation where the total amount of assets and off-balance sheet whether or not to grant the permission sought and to
items of the undertaking concerned is less than the smaller of determine the terms and conditions, if any, to which such
the following two amounts: permission should be subject;
L 176/34 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) for the purposes of determining whether the criteria for a The decision shall be provided to the EU parent institution, the
specific intragroup treatment as referred to in Article 422(9) EU parent financial holding company or to the EU parent mixed
and Article 425(5) complemented by the EBA regulatory financial holding company and the other competent authorities
technical standards referred to in Article 422(10) and by the consolidating supervisor.
Article 425(6) are met.
Applications shall be submitted only to the consolidating super­
visor.
If, at the end of the six month period, any of the competent
authorities concerned has referred the matter to EBA in
accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010,
The application referred to in Article 312(2), shall include a the consolidating supervisor shall defer its decision on point (a)
description of the methodology used for allocating operational of paragraph 1 of this Article and await any decision that EBA
risk capital between the different entities of the group. The may take in accordance with Article 19(3) of that Regulation on
application shall indicate whether and how diversification its decision, and shall take its decision in conformity with the
effects are intended to be factored in the risk measurement decision of EBA. The six-month period shall be deemed the
system. conciliation period within the meaning of that Regulation.
EBA shall take its decision within one month. The matter
shall not be referred to EBA after the end of the six month
period or after a joint decision has been reached.
2. The competent authorities shall do everything within their
power to reach a joint decision within six months on:
(a) the application referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1;
5. In the absence of a joint decision between the competent
authorities within six months, the competent authority
(b) the assessment of the criteria and the determination of the responsible for the supervision of the subsidiary on an indi­
specific treatment referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1. vidual basis shall make its own decision on point (b) of
paragraph 1.
This joint decision shall be set out in a document containing
the fully reasoned decision which shall be provided to the
applicant by the competent authority referred to in paragraph 1.
The decision shall be set out in a document containing the fully
reasoned decision and shall take into account the views and
3. The period referred to in paragraph 2 shall begin: reservations of the other competent authorities expressed
during the six months period.
(a) on the date of receipt of the complete application referred
to in point (a) of paragraph 1 by the consolidating super­
visor. The consolidating supervisor shall forward the
complete application to the other competent authorities
The decision shall be provided to the consolidating supervisor
without delay;
that informs the EU parent institution, the EU parent financial
holding company or the EU parent mixed financial holding
company.
(b) on the date of receipt by competent authorities of a report
prepared by the consolidating supervisor analysing
intragroup commitments within the group.
If, at the end of the six month period, the consolidating
4. In the absence of a joint decision between the competent
supervisor has referred the matter to EBA in accordance with
authorities within six months, the consolidating supervisor shall
Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, the competent
make its own decision on point (a) of paragraph 1. The decision
authority responsible for the supervision of the subsidiary on
of the consolidating supervisor shall not limit the powers of the
an individual basis shall defer its decision on point (b) of
competent authorities under Article 105 of Directive
paragraph 1 of this Article and await any decision that EBA
2013/36/EU.
may take in accordance with Article 19(3) of that Regulation on
its decision, and shall take its decision in conformity with the
decision of EBA. The six-month period shall be deemed the
The decision shall be set out in a document containing the fully conciliation period within the meaning of that Regulation.
reasoned decision and shall take into account the views and EBA shall take its decision within one month. The matter
reservations of the other competent authorities expressed shall not be referred to EBA after the end of the six month
during the six months period. period or after a joint decision has been reached.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/35
6. Where an EU parent institution and its subsidiaries, the six months period, the consolidating supervisor shall consult
subsidiaries of an EU parent financial holding company or an EBA at the request of any of the other competent authorities
EU parent mixed financial holding company use an Advanced concerned. The consolidating supervisor may consult EBA on its
Measurement Approach referred to in Article 312(2) or an IRB own initiative.
Approach referred to in Article 143 on a unified basis, the
competent authorities shall allow the qualifying criteria set
out in Articles 321 and 322 or in Part Three, Title II, The joint decision may also impose constraints on the location
Chapter 3, Section 6 respectively to be met by the parent and and ownership of liquid assets and require minimum amounts
its subsidiaries considered together, in a way that is consistent of liquid assets to be held by institutions that are exempt from
with the structure of the group and its risk management the application of Part Six.
systems, processes and methodologies.
The joint decision shall be set out in a document containing the
fully reasoned decision which shall be submitted to the parent
7. The decisions referred to in paragraphs 2, 4 and 5 shall be institution of the liquidity subgroup by the consolidating super­
recognised as determinative and applied by the competent auth­ visor.
orities in the Member States concerned.
2. In the absence of a joint decision within six months, each
competent authority responsible for supervision on an indi­
8. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards vidual basis shall take its own decision.
to specify the joint decision process referred to in point (a) of
paragraph 1, with regard to the applications for permissions
referred to in Article 143(1), Article 151(4) and (9), Article 283,
However, any competent authority may during the six months
Article 312(2), and Article 363 with a view to facilitating joint
period refer to EBA the question whether the conditions in
decisions.
points (a) to (d) of Article 8(1) are met. In that case, EBA
may carry out its non-binding mediation in accordance with
Article 31(c) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 and all the
competent authorities involved shall defer their decisions
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards pending the conclusion of the non-binding mediation. Where,
to the Commission by 31 December 2014. during the mediation, no agreement has been reached by the
competent authorities within three months, each competent
authority responsible for supervision on an individual basis
shall take its own decision taking into account the propor­
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ tionality of benefits and risks at the level of the Member State
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph of the parent institution and the proportionality of benefits and
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) risks at the level of the Member State of the subsidiary. The
No 1093/2010. matter shall not be referred to EBA after the end of the six
month period or after a joint decision has been reached.
Article 21 The joint decision referred to in paragraph 1 and the decisions
referred to in the second subparagraph of this paragraph shall
Joint decisions on the level of application of liquidity be binding.
requirements
1. Upon application of an EU parent institution or an EU
parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed financial 3. Any relevant competent authority may also during the six
holding company or a sub-consolidating subsidiary of an EU months period consult EBA in the event of a disagreement on
parent institution or an EU parent financial holding company or the conditions in points (a) to (d) of Article 8(3). In that case,
EU parent mixed financial holding company, the consolidating EBA may carry out its non-binding mediation in accordance
supervisor and the competent authorities responsible for the with Article 31(c) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, and all
supervision of subsidiaries of an EU parent institution or an the competent authorities involved shall defer their decisions
EU parent financial holding company or EU parent mixed pending the conclusion of the non-binding mediation. Where,
financial holding company in a Member State shall do during the mediation, no agreement has been reached by the
everything within their power to reach a joint decision on competent authorities within three months, each competent
whether the conditions in points (a) to (d) of Article 8(1) are authority responsible for supervision on an individual basis
met and identifying a single liquidity sub-group for the appli­ shall take its own decision.
cation of Article 8.
Article 22
Sub-consolidation in cases of entities in third countries
The joint decision shall be reached within six months after
submission by the consolidating supervisor of a report iden­ Subsidiary institutions shall apply the requirements laid down in
tifying single liquidity sub-groups on the basis of the criteria Articles 89 to 91 and Parts Three and Five on the basis of their
laid down in Article 8. In the event of disagreement during the sub-consolidated situation if those institutions, or the parent
L 176/36 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
undertaking where it is a financial holding company or mixed (a) capital instruments, provided the conditions laid down in
financial holding company, have an institution or a financial Article 28 or, where applicable, Article 29 are met;
institution as a subsidiary in a third country, or hold a partici­
pation in such an undertaking.
(b) share premium accounts related to the instruments referred
to in point (a);
Article 23
Undertakings in third countries
(c) retained earnings;
For the purposes of applying supervision on a consolidated
basis in accordance with this Chapter, the terms 'investment
firm', 'credit institution', financial institution', and 'institution'
shall also apply to undertakings established in third countries,
(d) accumulated other comprehensive income;
which, were they established in the Union, would fulfil the
definitions of those terms in Article 4.
(e) other reserves;
Article 24
Valuation of assets and off-balance sheet items
(f) funds for general banking risk.
1. The valuation of assets and off-balance sheet items shall
be effected in accordance with the applicable accounting
framework.
The items referred to in points (c) to (f) shall be recognised as
Common Equity Tier 1 only where they are available to the
institution for unrestricted and immediate use to cover risks or
2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, competent auth­ losses as soon as these occur.
orities may require that institutions effect the valuation of assets
and off-balance sheet items and the determination of own funds
in accordance with International Accounting Standards as
applicable under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002. 2. For the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 1, institutions
may include interim or year-end profits in Common Equity Tier
1 capital before the institution has taken a formal decision
confirming the final profit or loss of the institution for the
PART TWO year only with the prior permission of the competent authority.
The competent authority shall grant permission where the
OWN FUNDS
following conditions are met:
TITLE I
ELEMENTS OF OWN FUNDS
(a) those profits have been verified by persons independent of
CHAPTER 1
the institution that are responsible for the auditing of the
Tier 1 capital accounts of that institution;
Article 25
Tier 1 capital
(b) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
The Tier 1 capital of an institution consists of the sum of the competent authority that any foreseeable charge or dividend
Common Equity Tier 1 capital and Additional Tier 1 capital of has been deducted from the amount of those profits.
the institution.
A verification of the interim or year-end profits of the insti­
CHAPTER 2 tution shall provide an adequate level of assurance that those
profits have been evaluated in accordance with the principles set
Common Equity Tier 1 capital out in the applicable accounting framework.
S e c t i o n 1
C o m m o n e q u i t y t i e r 1 i t e m s a n d
i n s t r u m e n t s 3. Competent authorities shall evaluate whether issuances of
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments meet the criteria set out in
Article 26 Article 28 or, where applicable, Article 29. With respect to
issuances after 31 December 2014, institutions shall classify
Common Equity Tier 1 items
capital instruments as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
1. Common Equity Tier 1 items of institutions consist of the only after permission is granted by the competent authorities,
following: which may consult EBA.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/37
For capital instruments, with the exception of State aid, that are (v) a credit institution which is wholly owned by one of
approved as eligible for classification as Common Equity Tier 1 the institutions referred to in points (i) to (iv) and has
instruments by the competent authority but where, in the approval from the relevant competent authority to
opinion of EBA, the compliance with the criteria in Article 28 make use of the provisions in this Article, provided
or, where applicable, Article 29, is materially complex to that, and for as long as, 100 % of the ordinary shares
ascertain, the competent authorities shall explain their in issue in the credit institution are held directly or
reasoning to EBA. indirectly by an institution referred to in those points;
On the basis of information from each competent authority,
(b) the conditions laid down in Articles 28 or, where appli­
EBA shall establish, maintain and publish a list of all the
cable, Article 29, are met.
forms of capital instruments in each Member State that
qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments. EBA shall
establish that list and publish it by 1 February 2015 for the
first time. Those mutuals, cooperative societies or savings institutions
recognised as such under applicable national law prior to
31 December 2012 shall continue to be classified as such for
EBA may, after the review process set out in Article 80 and, the purposes of this Part, provided that they continue to meet
where there is significant evidence of those instruments not the criteria that determined such recognition.
meeting the criteria set out in Article 28 or, where applicable,
Article 29, decide to remove non-State aid capital instruments
issued after 31 December 2014 from the list and may make an
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
announcement to that effect.
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities
may determine that a type of undertaking recognised under
applicable national law qualifies as a mutual, cooperative
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to society, savings institution or similar institution for the
specify the meaning of foreseeable when determining whether purposes of this Part.
any foreseeable charge or dividend has been deducted.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. No 1093/2010.
Article 27
Article 28
Capital instruments of mutuals, cooperative societies,
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
savings institutions or similar institutions in Common
Equity Tier 1 items 1. Capital instruments shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1
instruments only if all the following conditions are met:
1. Common Equity Tier 1 items shall include any capital
instrument issued by an institution under its statutory terms
provided the following conditions are met:
(a) the instruments are issued directly by the institution with
the prior approval of the owners of the institution or,
(a) the institution is of a type that is defined under applicable where permitted under applicable national law, the
national law and which competent authorities consider to management body of the institution;
qualify as any of the following:
(b) the instruments are paid up and their purchase is not
(i) a mutual;
funded directly or indirectly by the institution;
(ii) a cooperative society;
(c) the instruments meet all the following conditions as
regards their classification:
(iii) a savings institution;
(i) they qualify as capital within the meaning of Article 22
(iv) a similar institution; of Directive 86/635/EEC;
L 176/38 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(ii) they are classified as equity within the meaning of the purchased at issuance, except in the case of the
applicable accounting framework; instruments referred to in Article 27;
(iii) they are classified as equity capital for the purposes of (v) the conditions governing the instruments do not
determining balance sheet insolvency, where applicable include any obligation for the institution to make
under national insolvency law; distributions to their holders and the institution is
not otherwise subject to such an obligation;
(d) the instruments are clearly and separately disclosed on the
(vi) non-payment of distributions does not constitute an
balance sheet in the financial statements of the institution;
event of default of the institution;
(e) the instruments are perpetual; (vii) the cancellation of distributions imposes no
restrictions on the institution;
(f) the principal amount of the instruments may not be
reduced or repaid, except in either of the following cases: (i) compared to all the capital instruments issued by the insti­
tution, the instruments absorb the first and proportionately
greatest share of losses as they occur, and each instrument
(i) the liquidation of the institution; absorbs losses to the same degree as all other Common
Equity Tier 1 instruments;
(ii) discretionary repurchases of the instruments or other
(j) the instruments rank below all other claims in the event of
discretionary means of reducing capital, where the insti­
insolvency or liquidation of the institution;
tution has received the prior permission of the
competent authority in accordance with Article 77;
(k) the instruments entitle their owners to a claim on the
residual assets of the institution, which, in the event of
(g) the provisions governing the instruments do not indicate
its liquidation and after the payment of all senior claims,
expressly or implicitly that the principal amount of the
is proportionate to the amount of such instruments issued
instruments would or might be reduced or repaid other
and is not fixed or subject to a cap, except in the case of
than in the liquidation of the institution, and the institution
the capital instruments referred to in Article 27;
does not otherwise provide such an indication prior to or
at issuance of the instruments, except in the case of
instruments referred to in Article 27 where the refusal by
(l) the instruments are not secured, or subject to a guarantee
the institution to redeem such instruments is prohibited
that enhances the seniority of the claim by any of the
under applicable national law;
following:
(h) the instruments meet the following conditions as regards (i) the institution or its subsidiaries;
distributions:
(ii) the parent undertaking of the institution or its subsidi­
(i) there is no preferential distribution treatment aries;
regarding the order of distribution payments,
including in relation to other Common Equity Tier
1 instruments, and the terms governing the (iii) the parent financial holding company or its subsidi­
instruments do not provide preferential rights to aries;
payment of distributions;
(iv) the mixed activity holding company or its subsidiaries;
(ii) distributions to holders of the instruments may be
paid only out of distributable items;
(v) the mixed financial holding company and its subsidi­
aries;
(iii) the conditions governing the instruments do not
include a cap or other restriction on the maximum (vi) any undertaking that has close links with the entities
level of distributions, except in the case of the referred to in points (i) to (v);
instruments referred to in Article 27;
(m) the instruments are not subject to any arrangement,
(iv) the level of distributions is not determined on the contractual or otherwise, that enhances the seniority of
basis of the amount for which the instruments were claims under the instruments in insolvency or liquidation.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/39
The condition set out in point (j) of the first subparagraph shall Article 29
be deemed to be met, notwithstanding the instruments are
Capital instruments issued by mutuals, cooperative
included in Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 by virtue of
societies, savings institutions and similar institutions
Article 484(3), provided that they rank pari passu.
1. Capital instruments issued by mutuals, cooperative
societies, savings institutions and similar institutions shall
2. The conditions laid down in point (i) of paragraph 1 shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments only if the
be deemed to be met notwithstanding a write down on a conditions laid down in Article 28 with modifications
permanent basis of the principal amount of Additional Tier 1 resulting from the application of this Article are met.
or Tier 2 instruments.
The condition laid down in point (f) of paragraph 1 shall be 2. The following conditions shall be met as regards
deemed to be met notwithstanding the reduction of the redemption of the capital instruments:
principal amount of the capital instrument within a resolution
procedure or as a consequence of a write down of capital
instruments required by the resolution authority responsible
(a) except where prohibited under applicable national law, the
for the institution.
institution shall be able to refuse the redemption of the
instruments;
The condition laid down in point (g) of paragraph 1 shall be
deemed to be met notwithstanding the provisions governing the
capital instrument indicating expressly or implicitly that the (b) where the refusal by the institution of the redemption of
principal amount of the instrument would or might be instruments is prohibited under applicable national law, the
reduced within a resolution procedure or as a consequence of provisions governing the instruments shall give the insti­
a write down of capital instruments required by the resolution tution the ability to limit their redemption;
authority responsible for the institution.
3. The condition laid down in point (h)(iii) of paragraph 1 (c) refusal to redeem the instruments, or the limitation of the
shall be deemed to be met notwithstanding the instrument redemption of the instruments where applicable, may not
paying a dividend multiple, provided that such a dividend constitute an event of default of the institution.
multiple does not result in a distribution that causes a dispro­
portionate drag on own funds.
3. The capital instruments may include a cap or restriction
on the maximum level of distributions only where that cap or
4. For the purposes of point (h)(i) of paragraph 1, differ­
restriction is set out under applicable national law or the statute
entiated distributions shall only reflect differentiated voting
of the institution.
rights. In this respect, higher distributions shall only apply to
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments with fewer or no voting
rights.
4. Where the capital instruments provide the owner with
rights to the reserves of the institution in the event of
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to insolvency or liquidation that are limited to the nominal value
specify the following: of the instruments, such a limitation shall apply to the same
degree to the holders of all other Common Equity Tier 1
instruments issued by that institution.
(a) the applicable forms and nature of indirect funding of own
funds instruments;
The condition laid down in the first subparagraph is without
(b) Whether and when multiple distributions would constitute a prejudice to the possibility for a mutual, cooperative society,
disproportionate drag on own funds; savings institution or a similar institution to recognize within
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments that do not afford voting
rights to the holder and that meet all the following conditions:
(c) the meaning of preferential distributions.
(a) the claim of the holders of the non-voting instruments in
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the insolvency or liquidation of the institution is propor­
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
tionate to the share of the total Common Equity Tier 1
instruments that those non-voting instruments represent;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) (b) the instruments otherwise qualify as Common Equity Tier 1
No 1093/2010. instruments.
L 176/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. Where the capital instruments entitle their owners to a (d) the capital instruments are fully subscribed and held by the
claim on the assets of the institution in the event of its State or a relevant public authority or public-owned entity;
insolvency or liquidation that is fixed or subject to a cap,
such a limitation shall apply to the same degree to all holders
of all Common Equity Tier 1 instruments issued by the insti­ (e) the capital instruments are able to absorb losses;
tution.
(f) except for the capital instruments referred to in Article 27,
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to in the event of liquidation, the capital instruments entitle
specify the nature of the limitations on redemption necessary their owners to a claim on the residual assets of the insti­
where the refusal by the institution of the redemption of own tution after the payment of all senior claims;
funds instruments is prohibited under applicable national law.
(g) there are adequate exit mechanisms of the State or, where
applicable, a relevant public authority or public-owned
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
entity;
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
(h) the competent authority has granted its prior permission
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
and has published its decision together with an explanation
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
of that decision.
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
2. Upon reasoned request by and in cooperation with the
relevant competent authority, EBA shall consider the capital
Article 30 instruments referred to in paragraph 1 as equivalent to
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments for the purposes of this
Consequences of the conditions for Common Equity Tier 1
Regulation.
instruments ceasing to be met
The following shall apply where, in the case of a Common
Equity Tier 1 instrument, the conditions laid down in Article 28 S e c t i o n 2
or, where applicable, Article 29 cease to be met:
P r u d e n t i a l f i l t e r s
Article 32
(a) that instrument shall immediately cease to qualify as a
Securitised assets
Common Equity Tier 1 instrument;
1. An institution shall exclude from any element of own
funds any increase in its equity under the applicable accounting
(b) the share premium accounts that relate to that instrument framework that results from securitised assets, including the
shall immediately cease to qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 following:
items.
(a) such an increase associated with future margin income that
Article 31 results in a gain on sale for the institution;
Capital instruments subscribed by public authorities in
emergency situations (b) where the institution is the originator of a securitisation, net
gains that arise from the capitalisation of future income
1. In emergency situations, competent authorities may
from the securitised assets that provide credit enhancement
permit institutions to include in Common Equity Tier 1
to positions in the securitisation.
capital instruments that comply at least with the conditions
laid down in points (b) to (e) of Article 28(1) where all the
following conditions are met:
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify further the concept of a gain on sale referred to in point
(a) of paragraph 1.
(a) the capital instruments are issued after 1 January 2014;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
(b) the capital instruments are considered State aid by the the Commission by 1 February 2015.
Commission;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
(c) the capital instruments are issued within the context of technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
recapitalisation measures pursuant to State aid- rules accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
existing at the time; No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/41
Article 33 Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Cash flow hedges and changes in the value of own
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
liabilities
No 1093/2010.
1. Institutions shall not include the following items in any
element of own funds:
Article 34
Additional value adjustments
(a) the fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow
Institutions shall apply the requirements of Article 105 to all
hedges of financial instruments that are not valued at fair
their assets measured at fair value when calculating the amount
value, including projected cash flows;
of their own funds and shall deduct from Common Equity Tier
1 capital the amount of any additional value adjustments
necessary.
(b) gains or losses on liabilities of the institution that are valued
at fair value that result from changes in the own credit
standing of the institution; Article 35
Unrealised gains and losses measured at fair value
(c) all fair value gains and losses arising from the institution's Except in the case of the items referred to in Article 33, insti­
own credit risk related to derivative liabilities. tutions shall not make adjustments to remove from their own
funds unrealised gains or losses on their assets or liabilities
measured at fair value.
2. For the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 1, institutions
shall not offset the fair value gains and losses arising from the
S e c t i o n 3
institution's own credit risk with those arising from its
counterparty credit risk. D e d u c t i o n s f r o m c o m m o n e q u i t y t i e r 1
i t e m s , e x e m p t i o n s a n d a l t e r n a t i v e s
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
3. Without prejudice to point (b) of paragraph 1, institutions
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m C o m m o n E q u i t y T i e r 1 i t e m s
may include the amount of gains and losses on their liabilities
in own funds where all the following conditions are met: Article 36
Deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 items
(a) the liabilities are in the form of bonds as referred to in 1. Institutions shall deduct the following from Common
Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC; Equity Tier 1 items:
(a) losses for the current financial year;
(b) the changes in the value of the institution's assets and
liabilities are due to the same changes in the institution's
own credit standing;
(b) intangible assets;
(c) there is a close correspondence between the value of the (c) deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability;
bonds referred to in point (a) and the value of the institu­
tion's assets;
(d) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
using the Internal Ratings Based Approach (the IRB
(d) it is possible to redeem the mortgage loans by buying back Approach), negative amounts resulting from the calculation
the bonds financing the mortgage loans at market or of expected loss amounts laid down in Articles 158
nominal value. and 159;
(e) defined benefit pension fund assets on the balance sheet of
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
the institution;
specify what constitutes close correspondence between the value
of the bonds and the value of the assets, as referred to in point
(c) of paragraph 3.
(f) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by an institution of
own Common Equity Tier 1 instruments, including own
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments that an institution is
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to under an actual or contingent obligation to purchase by
the Commission by 30 September 2013. virtue of an existing contractual obligation;
L 176/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(g) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the Common (a), (c), (e), (f), (h), (i) and (l) of paragraph 1 of this Article and
Equity Tier 1 instruments of financial sector entities where related deductions referred to in points (a), (c), (d) and (f) of
those entities have a reciprocal cross holding with the insti­ Article 56 and points (a), (c) and (d) of Article 66.
tution that the competent authority considers to have been
designed to inflate artificially the own funds of the insti­
tution; EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
(h) the applicable amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
holdings by the institution of Common Equity Tier 1 Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
instruments of financial sector entities where the institution technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
does not have a significant investment in those entities; accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(i) the applicable amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
holdings by the institution of the Common Equity Tier 1
specify the types of capital instruments of financial institutions
instruments of financial sector entities where the institution
and, in consultation with the European Supervisory Authority
has a significant investment in those entities;
(European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority)
(EIOPA) established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November
(j) the amount of items required to be deducted from 2010 ( 1 ), of third country insurance and reinsurance under­
Additional Tier 1 items pursuant to Article 56 that takings, and of undertakings excluded from the scope of
exceeds the Additional Tier 1 capital of the institution; Directive 2009/138/EC in accordance with Article 4 of that
Directive that shall be deducted from the following elements
of own funds:
(k) the exposure amount of the following items which qualify
for a risk weight of 1 250 %, where the institution deducts
that exposure amount from the amount of Common Equity (a) Common Equity Tier 1 items;
Tier 1 items as an alternative to applying a risk weight of
1 250 %:
(b) Additional Tier 1 items;
(i) qualifying holdings outside the financial sector;
(c) Tier 2 items.
(ii) securitisation positions, in accordance with
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
Article 243(1)(b), Article 244(1)(b) and Article 258;
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
(iii) free deliveries, in accordance with Article 379(3); Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(iv) positions in a basket for which an institution cannot
determine the risk weight under the IRB Approach, in
accordance with Article 153(8);
Article 37
Deduction of intangible assets
(v) equity exposures under an internal models approach, in
Institutions shall determine the amount of intangible assets to
accordance with Article 155(4).
be deducted in accordance with the following:
(l) any tax charge relating to Common Equity Tier 1 items (a) the amount to be deducted shall be reduced by the amount
foreseeable at the moment of its calculation, except where of associated deferred tax liabilities that would be extin­
the institution suitably adjusts the amount of Common guished if the intangible assets became impaired or were
Equity Tier 1 items insofar as such tax charges reduce the derecognised under the applicable accounting framework;
amount up to which those items may be used to cover risks
or losses.
(b) the amount to be deducted shall include goodwill included
in the valuation of significant investments of the institution.
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the application of the deductions referred to in points ( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/43
Article 38 (b) current year tax losses of the institution carried back to
previous years that give rise to a claim on, or a receivable
Deduction of deferred tax assets that rely on future
from, a central government, regional government or local
profitability
tax authority.
1. Institutions shall determine the amount of deferred tax
assets that rely on future profitability that require deduction
in accordance with this Article.
2. Deferred tax assets that do not rely on future profitability
shall be limited to deferred tax assets arising from temporary
differences, where all the following conditions are met:
2. Except where the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 are
met, the amount of deferred tax assets that rely on future profit­
ability shall be calculated without reducing it by the amount of
(a) they are automatically and mandatorily replaced without
the associated deferred tax liabilities of the institution.
delay with a tax credit in the event that the institution
reports a loss when the annual financial statements of the
institution are formally approved, or in the event of liqui­
3. The amount of deferred tax assets that rely on future
dation or insolvency of the institution;
profitability may be reduced by the amount of the associated
deferred tax liabilities of the institution, provided the following
conditions are met:
(b) an institution shall be able under the applicable national tax
law to offset a tax credit referred to in point (a) against any
(a) the entity has a legally enforceable right under applicable tax liability of the institution or any other undertaking
national law to set off those current tax assets against included in the same consolidation as the institution for
current tax liabilities; tax purposes under that law or any other undertaking
subject to the supervision on a consolidated basis in
accordance with Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One;
(b) the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate
to taxes levied by the same taxation authority and on the
same taxable entity.
(c) where the amount of tax credits referred to in point (b)
exceeds the tax liabilities referred to in that point, any
such excess is replaced without delay with a direct claim
4. Associated deferred tax liabilities of the institution used
on the central government of the Member State in which
for the purposes of paragraph 3 may not include deferred tax
the institution is incorporated.
liabilities that reduce the amount of intangible assets or defined
benefit pension fund assets required to be deducted.
Institutions shall apply a risk weight of 100 % to deferred tax
5. The amount of associated deferred tax liabilities referred to assets where the conditions laid down in points (a), (b) and c)
in paragraph 4 shall be allocated between the following: are met.
(a) deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and arise Article 40
from temporary differences that are not deducted in
accordance with Article 48(1); Deduction of negative amounts resulting from the
calculation of expected loss amounts
The amount to be deducted in accordance with point (d) of
(b) all other deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability. Article 36(1) shall not be reduced by a rise in the level of
deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability, or other
additional tax effects, that could occur if provisions were to
Institutions shall allocate the associated deferred tax liabilities rise to the level of expected losses referred to in Section 3 of
according to the proportion of deferred tax assets that rely on Chapter 3 of Title I.
future profitability that the items referred to in points (a) and (b)
represent.
Article 41
Article 39 Deduction of defined benefit pension fund assets
Tax overpayments, tax loss carry backs and deferred tax 1. For the purposes of point (e) of Article 36(1), the amount
assets that do not rely on future profitability of defined benefit pension fund assets to be deducted shall be
reduced by the following:
1. The following items shall not be deducted from own
funds and shall be subject to a risk weight in accordance
with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three, as applicable:
(a) the amount of any associated deferred tax liability which
could be extinguished if the assets became impaired or were
(a) overpayments of tax by the institution for the current year; derecognised under the applicable accounting framework;
L 176/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the amount of assets in the defined benefit pension fund securities against short positions in own Common Equity
which the institution has an unrestricted ability to use, Tier 1 instruments resulting from short positions in the
provided the institution has received the prior permission underlying indices, including where those short positions
of the competent authority. Those assets used to reduce the involve counterparty risk, provided that both the
amount to be deducted shall receive a risk weight in following conditions are met:
accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three,
as applicable.
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying
indices;
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the criteria according to which a competent authority
shall permit an institution to reduce the amount of assets in the
defined benefit pension fund as specified in point (b) of (ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
paragraph 1. the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
book.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
Article 43
Significant investment in a financial sector entity
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory For the purposes of deduction, a significant investment of an
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in institution in a financial sector entity shall arise where any of
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) the following conditions is met:
No 1093/2010.
(a) the institution owns more than 10 % of the Common
Article 42 Equity Tier 1 instruments issued by that entity;
Deduction of holdings of own Common Equity Tier 1
instruments
(b) the institution has close links with that entity and owns
For the purposes of point (f) of Article 36(1), institutions shall
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments issued by that entity;
calculate holdings of own Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
on the basis of gross long positions subject to the following
exceptions:
(c) the institution owns Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
issued by that entity and the entity is not included in
(a) institutions may calculate the amount of holdings of own consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments on the basis of the net One but is included in the same accounting consolidation
long position provided that both the following conditions as the institution for the purposes of financial reporting
are met: under the applicable accounting framework.
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying Article 44
exposure and the short positions involve no
Deduction of holdings of Common Equity Tier 1
counterparty risk;
instruments of financial sector entities and where an
institution has a reciprocal cross holding designed
artificially to inflate own funds
(ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
Institutions shall make the deductions referred to in points (g),
the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
(h) and (i) of Article 36(1) in accordance with the following:
book;
(b) institutions shall determine the amount to be deducted for (a) holdings of Common Equity Tier 1 instruments and other
direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of index securities by capital instruments of financial sector entities shall be
calculating the underlying exposure to own Common Equity calculated on the basis of the gross long positions;
Tier 1 instruments included in those indices;
(b) Tier 1 own-fund insurance items shall be treated as holdings
(c) institutions may net gross long positions in own Common of Common Equity Tier 1 instruments for the purposes of
Equity Tier 1 instruments resulting from holdings of index deduction.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/45
Article 45 amount to be deducted for deferred tax assets that rely
on future profitability and arise from temporary differ­
Deduction of holdings of Common Equity Tier 1
ences;
instruments of financial sector entities
Institutions shall make the deductions required by points (h)
and (i) of Article 36(1) in accordance with the following provi­
(iii) Articles 44 and 45;
sions:
(b) the amount of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the
(a) they may calculate direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of institution of the Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of the financial sector those financial sector entities in which the institution does
entities on the basis of the net long position in the same not have a significant investment divided by the aggregate
underlying exposure provided that both the following amount of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the
conditions are met: institution of the own funds instruments of those
financial sector entities.
(i) the maturity of the short position matches the maturity
2. Institutions shall exclude underwriting positions held for
of the long position or has a residual maturity of at least
five working days or fewer from the amount referred to in
one year;
point (a) of paragraph 1 and from the calculation of the
factor referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.
(ii) either both the long position and the short position are
held in the trading book or both are held in the non- 3. The amount to be deducted pursuant to paragraph 1 shall
trading book; be apportioned across all Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
held. Institutions shall determine the portion of holdings of
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments that is deducted pursuant
to paragraph 1 by multiplying the amount specified in point (a)
(b) they shall determine the amount to be deducted for direct, of this paragraph by the proportion specified in point (b) of this
indirect and synthetic holdings of index securities by calcu­ paragraph:
lating the underlying exposure to the capital instruments of
the financial sector entities in those indices.
(a) the amount of holdings required to be deducted pursuant to
paragraph 1;
Article 46
Deduction of holdings of Common Equity Tier 1
instruments where an institution does not have a (b) the proportion of the aggregate amount of direct, indirect
significant investment in a financial sector entity and synthetic holdings by the institution of the Common
Equity Tier 1 instruments of financial sector entities in
1. For the purposes of point (h) of Article 36(1), institutions which the institution does not have a significant investment
shall calculate the applicable amount to be deducted by multi­ represented by each Common Equity Tier 1 instrument
plying the amount referred to in point (a) of this paragraph by held.
the factor derived from the calculation referred to in point (b) of
this paragraph:
4. The amount of holdings referred to in point (h) of
Article 36(1) that is equal to or less than 10 % of the
(a) the aggregate amount by which the direct, indirect and Common Equity Tier 1 items of the institution after applying
synthetic holdings by the institution of the Common the provisions laid down in points (a)(i) to (iii) of paragraph 1
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments of shall not be deducted and shall be subject to the applicable risk
financial sector entities in which the institution does not weights in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part
have a significant investment exceeds 10 % of the Three and the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part Three,
aggregate amount of Common Equity Tier 1 items of the as applicable.
institution calculated after applying the following to
Common Equity Tier 1 items:
5. Institutions shall determine the portion of holdings of
own funds instruments that is risk weighted by dividing the
amount specified in point (a) by the amount specified in
(i) Articles 32 to 35;
point (b):
(ii) the deductions referred to in points (a) to (g), points (a) the amount of holdings required to be risk weighted
(k)(ii) to (v) and point (l) of Article 36(1), excluding the pursuant to paragraph 4;
L 176/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the amount specified in point (i) divided by the amount holdings of that institution of the Common Equity Tier 1
specified in point (ii): instruments of those entities that in aggregate are equal to
or less than 10 % of the Common Equity Tier 1 items of the
institution calculated after applying the following:
(i) the total amount of the Common Equity Tier 1 instru­
ments;
(i) Article 32 to 35;
(ii) points (a) to (h), points (k)(ii) to (v) and point (l), of
(ii) the aggregate amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
Article 36(1) excluding deferred tax assets that rely on
holdings by the institution of the Common Equity Tier
future profitability and arise from temporary differences.
1 instruments of financial sector entities in which the
institution does not have a significant investment.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the threshold amount
shall be equal to the amount referred to in point (a) of this
Article 47 paragraph multiplied by the percentage referred to in point (b)
of this paragraph:
Deduction of holdings of Common Equity Tier 1
instruments where an institution has a significant
investment in a financial sector entity
(a) the residual amount of Common Equity Tier 1 items after
For the purposes of point (i) of Article 36(1), the applicable applying the adjustments and deductions in Articles 32 to
amount to be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 items shall 36 in full and without applying the threshold exemptions
exclude underwriting positions held for five working days or specified in this Article;
fewer and shall be determined in accordance with Articles 44
and 45 and Sub-section 2.
(b) 17,65 %.
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
3. For the purposes of paragraph 1, an institution shall
E x e m p t i o n s f r o m a n d a l t e r n a t i v e s t o d e d u c t i o n determine the portion of deferred tax assets in the total
f r o m C o m m o n E q u i t y T i e r 1 i t e m s amount of items that is not required to be deducted by
dividing the amount specified in point (a) of this paragraph
Article 48
by the amount specified in point (b) of this paragraph:
Threshold exemptions from deduction from Common
Equity Tier 1 items
(a) the amount of deferred tax assets that are dependent on
1. In making the deductions required pursuant to points (c)
future profitability and arise from temporary differences,
and (i) of Article 36(1), institutions are not required to deduct
and in aggregate are equal to or less than 10 % of the
the amounts of the items listed in points (a) and (b) of this
Common Equity Tier 1 items of the institution;
paragraph which in aggregate are equal to or less than the
threshold amount referred to in paragraph 2:
(b) the sum of the following:
(a) deferred tax assets that are dependent on future profitability
and arise from temporary differences, and in aggregate are (i) the amount referred to in point (a);
equal to or less than 10 % of the Common Equity Tier 1
items of the institution calculated after applying the
following:
(ii) the amount of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by
the institution of the own funds instruments of financial
sector entities in which the institution has a significant
investment, and in aggregate are equal to or less than
(i) Articles 32 to 35;
10 % of the Common Equity Tier 1 items of the insti­
tution.
(ii) points (a) to (h), points (k)(ii) to (v) and point (l) of
The proportion of significant investments in the total amount
Article 36(1), excluding deferred tax assets that rely on
of items that is not required to be deducted is equal to one
future profitability and arise from temporary differences.
minus the proportion referred to in the first subparagraph.
(b) where an institution has a significant investment in a 4. The amounts of the items that are not deducted pursuant
financial sector entity, the direct, indirect and synthetic to paragraph 1 shall be risk weighted at 250 %.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/47
Article 49 2. For the purposes of calculating own funds on an indi­
vidual basis and a sub-consolidated basis, institutions subject
Requirement for deduction where consolidation,
to supervision on a consolidated basis in accordance with
supplementary supervision or institutional protection
Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One shall not deduct holdings of
schemes are applied
own funds instruments issued by financial sector entities
1. For the purposes of calculating own funds on an indi­ included in the scope of consolidated supervision, unless the
vidual basis, a sub-consolidated basis and a consolidated basis, competent authorities determine those deductions to be
where the competent authorities require or permit institutions required for specific purposes, in particular structural separation
to apply method 1, 2 or 3 of Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC, of banking activities and resolution planning.
the competent authorities may permit institutions not to deduct
the holdings of own funds instruments of a financial sector
entity in which the parent institution, parent financial holding
company or parent mixed financial holding company or insti­ Applying the approach referred to in the first subparagraph
tution has a significant investment, provided that the conditions shall not entail disproportionate adverse effects on the whole
laid down in points (a) to (e) of this paragraph are met: or parts of the financial system in other Member States or in
the Union as a whole forming or creating an obstacle to the
functioning of the internal market.
(a) the financial sector entity is an insurance undertaking, a re-
insurance undertaking or an insurance holding company;
3. Competent authorities may, for the purposes of calcu­
lating own funds on an individual or sub-consolidated basis
(b) that insurance undertaking, re-insurance undertaking or
permit institutions not to deduct holdings of own funds
insurance holding company is included in the same supple­
instruments in the following cases:
mentary supervision under Directive 2002/87/EC as the
parent institution, parent financial holding company or
parent mixed financial holding company or institution
that has the holding;
(a) where an institution has a holding in another institution
and the conditions referred to in points (i) to (v) are met:
(c) the institution has received the prior permission of the
competent authorities;
(i) the institutions fall within the same institutional
protection scheme referred to in Article 113(7);
(d) prior to granting the permission referred to in point (c), and
on a continuing basis, the competent authorities are satisfied
that the level of integrated management, risk management
and internal control regarding the entities that would be (ii) the competent authorities have granted the permission
included in the scope of consolidation under method 1, 2 referred to in Article 113(7);
or 3 is adequate;
(iii) the conditions laid down in Article 113(7) are satisfied;
(e) the holdings in the entity belong to one of the following:
(i) the parent credit institution;
(iv) the institutional protection scheme draws up a
consolidated balance sheet referred to in point (e) of
Article 113(7) or, where it is not required to draw up
(ii) the parent financial holding company; consolidated accounts, an extended aggregated calcu­
lation that is, to the satisfaction of the competent auth­
orities, equivalent to the provisions of Directive
(iii) the parent mixed financial holding company; 86/635/EEC, which incorporates certain adaptations of
the provisions of Directive 83/349/EEC or of Regu­
lation (EC) No 1606/2002, governing the consolidated
accounts of groups of credit institutions. The equiv­
(iv) the institution;
alence of that extended aggregated calculation shall be
verified by an external auditor and in particular that the
multiple use of elements eligible for the calculation of
(v) a subsidiary of one of the entities referred to in points
own funds as well as any inappropriate creation of own
(i) to (iv) that is included in the scope of consolidation
funds between the members of the institutional
pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One.
protection scheme is eliminated in the calculation.
The consolidated balance sheet or the extended
aggregated calculation shall be reported to the
The method chosen shall be applied in a consistent manner competent authorities no less frequently than the
over time. frequency laid down in Article 99;
L 176/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(v) the institutions included in an institutional protection S e c t i o n 4
scheme meet together on a consolidated or extended
C o m m o n e q u i t y t i e r 1 c a p i t a l
aggregated basis the requirements laid down in
Article 92 and carry out reporting of compliance with Article 50
those requirements in accordance with Article 99.
Within an institutional protection scheme the Common Equity Tier 1 capital
deduction of the interest owned by co-operative
The Common Equity Tier 1 capital of an institution shall
members or legal entities, which are not members of
consist of Common Equity Tier 1 items after the application
the institutional protection scheme, is not required,
of the adjustments required by Articles 32 to 35, the deductions
provided that the multiple use of elements eligible for
pursuant to Article 36 and the exemptions and alternatives laid
the calculation of own funds as well as any inappro­
down in Articles 48, 49 and 79.
priate creation of own funds between the members of
the institutional protection scheme and the minority
shareholder, when it is an institution, is eliminated.
CHAPTER 3
Additional Tier 1 capital
S e c t i o n 1
(b) where a regional credit institution has a holding in its
A d d i t i o n a l t i e r 1 i t e m s a n d i n s t r u m e n t s
central or another regional credit institution and the
conditions laid down in points (a)(i) to (v) are met. Article 51
Additional Tier 1 items
Additional Tier 1 items shall consist of the following:
4. The holdings in respect of which deduction is not made in
accordance with paragraph 1, 2 or 3 shall qualify as exposures
(a) capital instruments, where the conditions laid down in
and shall be risk weighted in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of
Article 52(1) are met;
Title II of Part Three, as applicable.
(b) the share premium accounts related to the instruments
referred to in point (a).
5. Where an institution applies methods 1 or 2 of Annex I
to Directive 2002/87/EC, the institution shall disclose the
supplementary own funds requirement and capital adequacy Instruments included under point (a) shall not qualify as
ratio of the financial conglomerate as calculated in accordance Common Equity Tier 1 or Tier 2 items.
with Article 6 of and Annex I to that Directive.
Article 52
Additional Tier 1 instruments
6. EBA, EIOPA and the European Supervisory Authority
1. Capital instruments shall qualify as Additional Tier 1
(European Securities and Markets Authority) (ESMA) established
instruments only if the following conditions are met:
by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 24 November 2010 ( 1 ) shall, through the
Joint Committee, develop draft regulatory technical standards to
(a) the instruments are issued and paid up;
specify for the purposes of this Article the conditions of appli­
cation of the calculation methods listed in Annex I, Part II of
Directive 2002/87/EC for the purposes of the alternatives to
(b) the instruments are not purchased by any of the following:
deduction referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
(i) the institution or its subsidiaries;
EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory
technical standards to the Commission by 1 February 2015. (ii) an undertaking in which the institution has a partici­
pation in the form of ownership, direct or by way of
control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital
of that undertaking;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in (c) the purchase of the instruments is not funded directly or
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) indirectly by the institution;
No 1093/2010, of Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 and of Regu­
lation (EU) No 1095/2010 respectively.
(d) the instruments rank below Tier 2 instruments in the event
( 1 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84. of the insolvency of the institution;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/49
(e) the instruments are not secured, or subject to a guarantee (k) the institution does not indicate explicitly or implicitly that
that enhances the seniority of the claims by any of the the competent authority would consent to a request to call,
following: redeem or repurchase the instruments;
(i) the institution or its subsidiaries; (l) distributions under the instruments meet the following
conditions:
(ii) the parent undertaking of the institution or its subsidi­
aries;
(i) they are paid out of distributable items;
(iii) the parent financial holding company or its subsidi­
(ii) the level of distributions made on the instruments will
aries;
not be amended on the basis of the credit standing of
the institution or its parent undertaking;
(iv) the mixed activity holding company or its subsidiaries;
(iii) the provisions governing the instruments give the insti­
tution full discretion at all times to cancel the
(v) the mixed financial holding company or its subsidi­
distributions on the instruments for an unlimited
aries;
period and on a non-cumulative basis, and the insti­
tution may use such cancelled payments without
restriction to meet its obligations as they fall due;
(vi) any undertaking that has close links with entities
referred to in points (i) to (v);
(iv) cancellation of distributions does not constitute an
event of default of the institution;
(f) the instruments are not subject to any arrangement,
contractual or otherwise, that enhances the seniority of
the claim under the instruments in insolvency or liqui­
dation; (v) the cancellation of distributions imposes no restrictions
on the institution;
(g) the instruments are perpetual and the provisions governing
them include no incentive for the institution to redeem (m) the instruments do not contribute to a determination that
them; the liabilities of an institution exceed its assets, where such
a determination constitutes a test of insolvency under
applicable national law;
(h) where the provisions governing the instruments include
one or more call options, the option to call may be
exercised at the sole discretion of the issuer; (n) the provisions governing the instruments require that, upon
the occurrence of a trigger event, the principal amount of
the instruments be written down on a permanent or
(i) the instruments may be called, redeemed or repurchased temporary basis or the instruments be converted to
only where the conditions laid down in Article 77 are met, Common Equity Tier 1 instruments;
and not before five years after the date of issuance except
where the conditions laid down in Article 78(4) are met;
(o) the provisions governing the instruments include no feature
that could hinder the recapitalisation of the institution;
(j) the provisions governing the instruments do not indicate
explicitly or implicitly that the instruments would or might
be called, redeemed or repurchased and the institution does
(p) where the instruments are not issued directly by an insti­
not otherwise provide such an indication, except in the
tution, both the following conditions shall be met:
following cases:
(i) the liquidation of the institution; (i) the instruments are issued through an entity within the
consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part
One;
(ii) discretionary repurchases of the instruments or other
discretionary means of reducing the amount of
Additional Tier 1 capital, where the institution has (ii) the proceeds are immediately available to the institution
received the prior permission of the competent without limitation and in a form that satisfies the
authority in accordance with Article 77; conditions laid down in this paragraph.
L 176/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
The condition set out in point (d) of the first subparagraph shall cancelled in the event that distributions are not made on
be deemed to be met notwithstanding the instruments are those Additional Tier 1 instruments;
included in Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 by virtue of
Article 484(3), provided that they rank pari passu.
(c) an obligation to substitute the payment of interest or
dividend by a payment in any other form. The institution
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to shall not otherwise be subject to such an obligation.
specify all the following:
Article 54
(a) the form and nature of incentives to redeem;
Write down or conversion of Additional Tier 1
instruments
(b) the nature of any write up of the principal amount of an
1. For the purposes of point (n) of Article 52(1), the
Additional Tier 1 instrument following a write down of its
following provisions shall apply to Additional Tier 1 instru­
principal amount on a temporary basis;
ments:
(c) the procedures and timing for the following:
(a) a trigger event occurs when the Common Equity Tier 1
capital ratio of the institution referred to in point (a) of
Article 92(1) falls below either of the following:
(i) determining that a trigger event has occurred;
(i) 5,125 %;
(ii) writing up the principal amount of an Additional Tier 1
instrument following a write down of its principal
amount on a temporary basis;
(ii) a level higher than 5,125 %, where determined by the
institution and specified in the provisions governing the
instrument;
(d) features of instruments that could hinder the recapitalisation
of the institution;
(b) institutions may specify in the provisions governing the
instrument one or more trigger events in addition to that
(e) the use of special purposes entities for indirect issuance of
referred to in point (a);
own funds instruments.
(c) where the provisions governing the instruments require
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
them to be converted into Common Equity Tier 1
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
instruments upon the occurrence of a trigger event, those
provisions shall specify either of the following:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) (i) the rate of such conversion and a limit on the permitted
No 1093/2010. amount of conversion;
Article 53 (ii) a range within which the instruments will convert into
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments;
Restrictions on the cancellation of distributions on
Additional Tier 1 instruments and features that could
hinder the recapitalisation of the institution
(d) where the provisions governing the instruments require
For the purposes of points (l)(v) and (o) of Article 52(1), the their principal amount to be written down upon the
provisions governing Additional Tier 1 instruments shall, in occurrence of a trigger event, the write down shall reduce
particular, not include the following: all the following:
(a) a requirement for distributions on the instruments to be (i) the claim of the holder of the instrument in the
made in the event of a distribution being made on an insolvency or liquidation of the institution;
instrument issued by the institution that ranks to the
same degree as, or more junior than, an Additional Tier 1
instrument, including a Common Equity Tier 1 instrument; (ii) the amount required to be paid in the event of the call
or redemption of the instrument;
(b) a requirement for the payment of distributions on Common
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments to be (iii) the distributions made on the instrument.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/51
2. Write down or conversion of an Additional Tier 1 Article 55
instrument shall, under the applicable accounting framework,
Consequences of the conditions for Additional Tier 1
generate items that qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 items.
instruments ceasing to be met
The following shall apply where, in the case of an Additional
Tier 1 instrument, the conditions laid down in Article 52(1)
3. The amount of Additional Tier 1 instruments recognised
cease to be met:
in Additional Tier 1 items is limited to the minimum amount
Common Equity Tier 1 items that would be generated if the
principal amount of the Additional Tier 1 instruments were
fully written down or converted into Common Equity Tier 1
(a) that instrument shall immediately cease to qualify as an
instruments.
Additional Tier 1 instrument;
4. The aggregate amount of Additional Tier 1 instruments
that is required to be written down or converted upon the (b) the part of the share premium accounts that relates to that
occurrence of a trigger event shall be no less than the lower instrument shall immediately cease to qualify as an
of the following: Additional Tier 1 item.
(a) the amount required to restore fully the Common Equity S e c t i o n 2
Tier 1 ratio of the institution to 5,125 %;
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m a d d i t i o n a l t i e r 1 i t e m s
Article 56
(b) the full principal amount of the instrument.
Deductions from Additional Tier 1 items
Institutions shall deduct the following from Additional Tier 1
items:
5. When a trigger event occurs institutions shall do the
following:
(a) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by an institution of
(a) immediately inform the competent authorities; own Additional Tier 1 instruments, including own
Additional Tier 1 instruments that an institution could be
obliged to purchase as a result of existing contractual
obligations;
(b) inform the holders of the Additional Tier 1 instruments;
(b) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the Additional Tier
(c) write down the principal amount of the instruments, or
1 instruments of financial sector entities with which the
convert the instruments into Common Equity Tier 1
institution has reciprocal cross holdings that the
instruments without delay, but no later than in one
competent authority considers to have been designed to
month, in accordance with the requirement laid down in
inflate artificially the own funds of the institution;
this Article.
6. An institution issuing Additional Tier 1 instruments that (c) the applicable amount determined in accordance with
convert to Common Equity Tier 1 on the occurrence of a Article 60 of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the
trigger event shall ensure that its authorised share capital is at Additional Tier 1 instruments of financial sector entities,
all times sufficient, for converting all such convertible where an institution does not have a significant investment
Additional Tier 1 instruments into shares if a trigger event in those entities;
occurs. All necessary authorisations shall be obtained at the
date of issuance of such convertible Additional Tier 1 instru­
ments. The institution shall maintain at all times the necessary
(d) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of
prior authorisation to issue the Common Equity Tier 1
the Additional Tier 1 instruments of financial sector entities
instruments into which such Additional Tier 1 instruments
where the institution has a significant investment in those
would convert upon occurrence of a trigger event.
entities, excluding underwriting positions held for five
working days or fewer;
7. An institution issuing Additional Tier 1 instruments that
convert to Common Equity Tier 1 on the occurrence of a
trigger event shall ensure that there are no procedural (e) the amount of items required to be deducted from Tier 2
impediments to that conversion by virtue of its incorporation items pursuant to Article 66 that exceed the Tier 2 capital
or statutes or contractual arrangements. of the institution;
L 176/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(f) any tax charge relating to Additional Tier 1 items fore­ (a) holdings of Additional Tier 1 instruments shall be calculated
seeable at the moment of its calculation, except where the on the basis of the gross long positions;
institution suitably adjusts the amount of Additional Tier 1
items insofar as such tax charges reduce the amount up to
which those items may be applied to cover risks or losses.
(b) Additional Tier 1 own-fund insurance items shall be treated
as holdings of Additional Tier 1 instruments for the
purposes of deduction.
Article 57
Deductions of holdings of own Additional Tier 1
instruments
Article 59
For the purposes of point (a) of Article 56, institutions shall
Deduction of holdings of Additional Tier 1 instruments of
calculate holdings of own Additional Tier 1 instruments on the
financial sector entities
basis of gross long positions subject to the following exceptions:
Institutions shall make the deductions required by points (c) and
(d) of Article 56 in accordance with the following:
(a) institutions may calculate the amount of holdings of own
Additional Tier 1 instruments on the basis of the net long
position provided that both the following conditions are (a) they may calculate direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of
met: Additional Tier 1 instruments of the financial sector entities
on the basis of the net long position in the same underlying
exposure provided that both the following conditions are
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying met:
exposure and the short positions involve no
counterparty risk;
(i) the maturity of the short position matches the maturity
of the long position or has a residual maturity of at least
(ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
one year;
the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
book;
(ii) either both the short position and the long position are
held in the trading book or both are held in the non-
(b) institutions shall determine the amount to be deducted for
trading book.
direct, indirect or synthetic holdings of index securities by
calculating the underlying exposure to own Additional Tier
1 instruments in those indices;
(b) they shall determine the amount to be deducted for direct,
indirect and synthetic holdings of index securities by calcu­
(c) institutions may net gross long positions in own Additional lating the underlying exposure to the capital instruments of
Tier 1 instruments resulting from holdings of index the financial sector entities in those indices.
securities against short positions in own Additional Tier 1
instruments resulting from short positions in the underlying
indices, including where those short positions involve
Article 60
counterparty risk, provided that both the following
conditions are met: Deduction of holdings of Additional Tier 1 instruments
where an institution does not have a significant
investment in a financial sector entity
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying
1. For the purposes of point (c) of Article 56, institutions
indices;
shall calculate the applicable amount to be deducted by multi­
plying the amount referred to in point (a) of this paragraph by
the factor derived from the calculation referred to in point (b) of
(ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
this paragraph:
the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
book;
(a) the aggregate amount by which the direct, indirect and
synthetic holdings by the institution of the Common
Article 58
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments of
Deduction of holdings of Additional Tier 1 instruments of financial sector entities exceeds 10 % of the Common Equity
financial sector entities and where an institution has a Tier 1 items of the institution calculated after applying the
reciprocal cross holding designed artificially to inflate following:
own funds
Institutions shall make the deductions required by points (b), (c)
and (d) of Article 56 in accordance with the following: (i) Article 32 to 35;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/53
(ii) points (a) to (g), points (k)(ii) to (v) and point (l) of (a) the amount of holdings required to be risk weighted
Article 36(1), excluding deferred tax assets that rely on pursuant to paragraph 4;
future profitability and arise from temporary differ­
ences;
(b) the amount specified in point (i) divided by the amount
specified in point (ii):
(iii) Articles 44 and 45;
(i) the total amount of the Common Equity Tier 1 instru­
(b) the amount of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the
ments;
institution of the Additional Tier 1 instruments of those
financial sector entities in which the institution does not
have a significant investment divided by the aggregate
amount of all direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by (ii) the aggregate amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
the institution of the Common Equity Tier 1, Additional holdings by the institution of the Common Equity Tier
Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments of those financial sector 1 instruments of financial sector entities in which the
entities. institution does not have a significant investment.
2. Institutions shall exclude underwriting positions held for S e c t i o n 3
five working days or fewer from the amount referred to in
A d d i t i o n a l T i e r 1 c a p i t a l
point (a) of paragraph 1 and from the calculation of the
factor referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.
Article 61
Additional Tier 1 capital
3. The amount to be deducted pursuant to paragraph 1 shall
The Additional Tier 1 capital of an institution shall consist of
be apportioned across all Additional Tier 1 instruments held.
Additional Tier 1 items after the deduction of the items referred
The amount to be deducted from each Additional Tier 1
to in Article 56 and the application of Article 79.
instrument pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be calculated by
multiplying the amount specified in point (a) of this
paragraph by the proportion specified in point (b) of this para­
graph: CHAPTER 4
Tier 2 capital
(a) the amount of holdings required to be deducted pursuant to S e c t i o n 1
paragraph 1;
T i e r 2 i t e m s a n d i n s t r u m e n t s
Article 62
(b) the amount specified in point (i) divided by the amount
Tier 2 items
specified in point (ii):
Tier 2 items shall consist of the following:
(i) the total amount of the Additional Tier 1 instrument;
(a) capital instruments and subordinated loans where the
conditions laid down in Article 63 are met;
(ii) the aggregate amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
holdings by the institution of the Additional Tier 1
instruments of financial sector entities in which the
(b) the share premium accounts related to instruments referred
institution does not have a significant investment.
to in point (a);
4. The amount of holdings referred to in point (c) of
Article 56 that is equal to or less than 10 % of the Common (c) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
Equity Tier 1 items of the institution after applying the in accordance with Chapter 2 of Title II of Part Three,
provisions laid down in points (a)(i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph general credit risk adjustments, gross of tax effects, of up
1 shall not be deducted and shall be subject to the applicable to 1,25 % of risk-weighted exposure amounts calculated in
risk weights in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of accordance with Chapter 2 of Title II of Part Three;
Part Three and the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part
Three, as applicable.
(d) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
under Chapter 3 of Title II of Part Three, positive amounts,
5. Institutions shall determine the portion of holdings of gross of tax effects, resulting from the calculation laid down
own funds instruments that is risk weighted by dividing the in Articles 158 and 159 up to 0,6 % of risk weighted
amount specified in point (a) by the amount specified in exposure amounts calculated under Chapter 3 of Title II
point (b): of Part Three.
L 176/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Items included under point (a) shall not qualify as Common the seniority of the claim under the instruments or
Equity Tier 1 or Additional Tier 1 items. subordinated loans respectively;
Article 63
(g) the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable, have
Tier 2 instruments
an original maturity of at least five years;
Capital instruments and subordinated loans shall qualify as Tier
2 instruments provided the following conditions are met:
(h) the provisions governing the instruments or subordinated
(a) the instruments are issued or the subordinated loans are loans, as applicable, do not include any incentive for their
raised, as applicable, and fully paid-up; principal amount to be redeemed or repaid, as applicable
by the institution prior to their maturity;
(b) the instruments are not purchased or the subordinated
loans are not granted, as applicable, by any of the
following: (i) where the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable,
include one or more call options or early repayment
options, as applicable, the options are exercisable at the
(i) the institution or its subsidiaries; sole discretion of the issuer or debtor, as applicable;
(ii) an undertaking in which the institution has partici­
pation in the form of ownership, direct or by way of (j) the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable, may
control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital be called, redeemed or repurchased or repaid early only
of that undertaking; where the conditions laid down in Article 77 are met,
and not before five years after the date of issuance or
raising, as applicable, except where the conditions laid
(c) the purchase of the instruments or the granting of the
down in Article 78(4) are met;
subordinated loans, as applicable, is not funded directly
or indirectly by the institution;
(k) the provisions governing the instruments or subordinated
(d) the claim on the principal amount of the instruments
loans, as applicable, do not indicate explicitly or implicitly
under the provisions governing the instruments or the
that the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable,
claim of the principal amount of the subordinated loans
would or might be called, redeemed, repurchased or repaid
under the provisions governing the subordinated loans, as
early, as applicable by the institution other than in the
applicable, is wholly subordinated to claims of all non-
insolvency or liquidation of the institution and the insti­
subordinated creditors;
tution does not otherwise provide such an indication;
(e) the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable, are
not secured, or subject to a guarantee that enhances the
(l) the provisions governing the instruments or subordinated
seniority of the claim by any of the following:
loans, as applicable, do not give the holder the right to
accelerate the future scheduled payment of interest or prin­
(i) the institution or its subsidiaries; cipal, other than in the insolvency or liquidation of the
institution;
(ii) the parent undertaking of the institution or its subsidi­
aries;
(m) the level of interest or dividend payments, as applicable,
due on the instruments or subordinated loans, as appli­
(iii) the parent financial holding company or its subsidi­
cable, will not be amended on the basis of the credit
aries;
standing of the institution or its parent undertaking;
(iv) the mixed activity holding company or its subsidiaries;
(n) where the instruments are not issued directly by an insti­
tution, or where the subordinated loans are not raised
(v) the mixed financial holding company or its subsidi­
directly by an institution, as applicable, both of the
aries;
following conditions shall be met:
(vi) any undertaking that has close links with entities
referred to in points (i) to (v);
(i) the instruments are issued or subordinated loans are
raised, as applicable, through an entity, which is part
(f) the instruments or subordinated loans, as applicable, are of the consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of
not subject to any arrangement that otherwise enhances Part One;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/55
(ii) the proceeds are immediately available to the institution (c) the applicable amount determined in accordance with
without limitation in a form that satisfies the Article 70 of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the
conditions laid down in this paragraph. Tier 2 instruments of financial sector entities, where an
institution does not have a significant investment in those
entities;
Article 64
Amortisation of Tier 2 instruments
(d) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of
The extent to which Tier 2 instruments qualify as Tier 2 items the Tier 2 instruments of financial sector entities where the
during the final five years of maturity of the instruments is institution has a significant investment in those entities,
calculated by multiplying the result derived from the calculation excluding underwriting positions held for fewer than five
in point (a) by the amount referred to in point (b) as follows: working days.
(a) the nominal amount of the instruments or subordinated
Article 67
loans on the first day of the final five year period of their
contractual maturity divided by the number of calendar days Deductions of holdings of own Tier 2 instruments
in that period;
For the purposes of point (a) of Article 66, institutions shall
calculate holdings on the basis of the gross long positions
subject to the following exceptions:
(b) the number of remaining calendar days of contractual
maturity of the instruments or subordinated loans.
(a) institutions may calculate the amount of holdings on the
basis of the net long position provided that both the
Article 65
following conditions are met:
Consequences of the conditions for Tier 2 instruments
ceasing to be met
Where in the case of a Tier 2 instrument the conditions laid
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying
down in Article 63 cease to be met, the following shall apply:
exposure and the short positions involve no
counterparty risk;
(a) that instrument shall immediately cease to qualify as a Tier
2 instrument;
(ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
book;
(b) the part of the share premium accounts that relate to that
instrument shall immediately cease to qualify as Tier 2
items.
(b) institutions shall determine the amount to be deducted for
direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of index securities by
calculating the underlying exposure to own Tier 2
S e c t i o n 2
instruments in those indices;
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m t i e r 2 i t e m s
Article 66
Deductions from Tier 2 items (c) institutions may net gross long positions in own Tier 2
instruments resulting from holdings of index securities
The following shall be deducted from Tier 2 items: against short positions in own Tier 2 instruments
resulting from short positions in the underlying indices,
including where those short positions involve counterparty
risk, provided that both the following conditions are met:
(a) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by an institution of
own Tier 2 instruments, including own Tier 2 instruments
that an institution could be obliged to purchase as a result
of existing contractual obligations;
(i) the long and short positions are in the same underlying
indices;
(b) direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the Tier 2
instruments of financial sector entities with which the insti­
tution has reciprocal cross holdings that the competent (ii) either both the long and the short positions are held in
authority considers to have been designed to inflate artifi­ the trading book or both are held in the non-trading
cially the own funds of the institution; book.
L 176/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 68 Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments of
financial sector entities exceeds 10 % of the Common Equity
Deduction of holdings of Tier 2 instruments of financial
Tier 1 items of the institution calculated after applying the
sector entities and where an institution has a reciprocal
following:
cross holding designed artificially to inflate own funds
Institutions shall make the deductions required by points (b), (c)
and (d) of Article 66 in accordance with the following provi­ (i) Article 32 to 35;
sions:
(ii) points (a) to (g), points (k)(ii) to (v) and point (l) of
(a) holdings of Tier 2 instruments shall be calculated on the Article 36(1), excluding the amount to be deducted for
basis of the gross long positions; deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability and
arise from temporary differences;
(b) holdings of Tier 2 own-fund insurance items and Tier 3
(iii) Articles 44 and 45;
own-fund insurance items shall be treated as holdings of
Tier 2 instruments for the purposes of deduction.
(b) the amount of direct, indirect and synthetic holdings by the
institution of the Tier 2 instruments of financial sector
Article 69
entities divided by the aggregate amount of all direct,
Deduction of holdings of Tier 2 instruments of financial indirect and synthetic holdings by the institution of the
sector entities Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2
instruments of those financial sector entities.
Institutions shall make the deductions required by points (c) and
(d) of Article 66 in accordance with the following:
2. Institutions shall exclude underwriting positions held for
five working days or fewer from the amount referred to in
(a) they may calculate direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of point (a) of paragraph 1 and from the calculation of the
Tier 2 instruments of the financial sector entities on the factor referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.
basis of the net long position in the same underlying
exposure provided that both the following conditions are
met: 3. The amount to be deducted pursuant to paragraph 1 shall
be apportioned across each Tier 2 instrument held. Institutions
shall determine the portion of holdings of Tier 2 instruments
(i) the maturity of the short position matches the maturity that is deducted by multiplying the amount specified in point
of the long position or has a residual maturity of at least (a) of this paragraph by the proportion specified in point (b) of
one year; this paragraph:
(a) the total amount of holdings required to be deducted
(ii) either both the long position and the short position are
pursuant to paragraph 1;
held in the trading book or both are held in the non-
trading book;
(b) the amount specified in point (i) divided by the amount
specified in point (ii):
(b) they shall determine the amount to be deducted for direct,
indirect and synthetic holdings of index securities by
looking through to the underlying exposure to the capital
(i) the total amount of the Tier 2 instrument;
instruments of the financial sector entities in those indices.
(ii) the aggregate amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
Article 70
holdings by the institution of the Tier 2 instruments of
Deduction of Tier 2 instruments where an institution does financial sector entities in which the institution does not
not have a significant investment in a relevant entity have a significant investment.
1. For the purposes of point (c) of Article 66, institutions
shall calculate the applicable amount to be deducted by multi­
4. The amount of holdings referred to in point (c) of
plying the amount referred to in point (a) of this paragraph by
Article 66(1) that is equal to or less than 10 % of the
the factor derived from the calculation referred to in point (b) of
Common Equity Tier 1 items of the institution after applying
this paragraph:
the provisions laid down in points (a)(i) to (iii) of paragraph 1
shall not be deducted and shall be subject to the applicable risk
weights in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part
(a) the aggregate amount by which the direct, indirect and Three and the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part Three,
synthetic holdings by the institution of the Common as applicable.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/57
5. Institutions shall determine the portion of holdings of 2. Competent authorities shall grant the permission referred
own funds instruments that is risk weighted by dividing the to in paragraph 1 only where they consider all the following
amount specified in point (a) by the amount specified in conditions to be met:
point (b):
(a) the ability of the institution to cancel payments under the
instrument would not be adversely affected by the discretion
(a) the amount of holdings required to be risk weighted referred to in paragraph 1, or by the form in which
pursuant to paragraph 4; distributions could be made;
(b) the ability of the instrument to absorb losses would not be
(b) the amount specified in point (i) divided by the amount
adversely affected by the discretion referred to in paragraph
specified in point (ii):
1, or by the form in which distributions could be made;
(c) the quality of the capital instrument would not otherwise be
(i) the total amount of the Common Equity Tier 1 instru­
reduced by the discretion referred to in paragraph 1, or by
ments;
the form in which distributions could be made.
(ii) the aggregate amount of direct, indirect and synthetic 3. Capital instruments for which a legal person other than
holdings by the institution of the Common Equity Tier the institution issuing them has the discretion to decide or
1 instruments of financial sector entities in which the require that the payment of distributions on the instrument
institution does not have a significant investment. shall be made in a form other than cash or an own funds
instrument shall not be capable of qualifying as Common
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments.
S e c t i o n 3
4. Institutions may use a broad market index as one of the
T i e r 2 c a p i t a l
bases for determining the level of distributions on Additional
Article 71 Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments.
Tier 2 capital
The Tier 2 capital of an institution shall consist of the Tier 2 5. Paragraph 4 shall not apply where the institution is a
items of the institution after the deductions referred to in reference entity in that broad market index unless both the
Article 66 and the application of Article 79. following conditions are met:
(a) the institution considers movements in that broad market
CHAPTER 5
index not to be significantly correlated to the credit standing
Own funds of the institution, its parent institution or parent financial
holding company or parent mixed financial holding
Article 72 company or parent mixed activity holding company;
Own funds
The own funds of an institution shall consist of the sum of its
(b) the competent authority has not reached a different deter­
Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.
mination from that referred to in point (a).
6. Institutions shall report and disclose the broad market
CHAPTER 6
indices on which their capital instruments rely.
General requirements
Article 73
7. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
Distributions on own funds instruments specify the conditions according to which indices shall be
deemed to qualify as broad market indices for the purposes
1. Capital instruments for which an institution has the sole
of paragraph 4.
discretion to decide to pay distributions in a form other than
cash or an own funds instrument shall not be capable of qual­
ifying as Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2
instruments unless the institution has received the prior EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
permission of the competent authorities. the Commission by 1 February 2015.
L 176/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory (c) the short position referred to in point (a) qualifies as an
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in effective hedge under the internal control processes of the
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) institution;
No 1093/2010.
(d) the competent authorities assess the adequacy of the control
processes referred to in point (c) on at least an annual basis
Article 74 and are satisfied with their continuing appropriateness.
Holdings of capital instruments issued by regulated
financial sector entities that do not qualify as regulatory
2. Where the competent authority has given its prior
capital
permission, an institution may use a conservative estimate of
the underlying exposure of the institution to capital instruments
Institutions shall not deduct from any element of own funds
included in indices as an alternative to an institution calculating
direct, indirect or synthetic holdings of capital instruments
its exposure to the items referred to in either or both of points
issued by a regulated financial sector entity that do not
(a) and (b):
qualify as regulatory capital of that entity. Institutions shall
apply risk weights to such holdings in accordance with
Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three, as applicable.
(a) own Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2
instruments included in indices;
Article 75
(b) Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2
Deduction and maturity requirements for short positions instruments of financial sector entities, included in indices.
The maturity requirements for short positions referred to in
point (a) of Article 45, point (a) of Article 59 and point (a)
3. Competent authorities shall grant the permission referred
of Article 69 shall be deemed to be met in respect of positions
to in paragraph 2 only where the institution has demonstrated
held where the following conditions are met:
to their satisfaction that it would be operationally burdensome
for the institution to monitor its underlying exposure to the
items referred to in one or both of point (a) or (b) of paragraph
2, as applicable.
(a) the institution has the contractual right to sell on a specific
future date to the counterparty providing the hedge the long
position that is being hedged;
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify:
(b) the counterparty providing the hedge to the institution is (a) when an estimate used as an alternative to the calculation of
contractually obliged to purchase from the institution on underlying exposure referred to in paragraph 2 is suffi­
that specific future date the long position referred to in ciently conservative;
point (a).
(b) the meaning of operationally burdensome for the purposes
of paragraph 3.
Article 76
Index holdings of capital instruments
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
1. For the purposes of point (a) of Article 42, point (a) of the Commission by 1 February 2015.
Article 45, point (a) of Article 57, point (a) of Article 59, point
(a) of Article 67 and point (a) of Article 69, institutions may
reduce the amount of a long position in a capital instrument by Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
the portion of an index that is made up of the same underlying technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
exposure that is being hedged, provided the following accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
conditions are met: No 1093/2010.
Article 77
(a) either both the long position being hedged and the short
Conditions for reducing own funds
position in an index used to hedge that long position are
held in the trading book or both are held in the non-trading An institution shall require the prior permission of the
book; competent authority to do either or both of the following:
(a) reduce, redeem or repurchase Common Equity Tier 1
(b) the positions referred to in point (a) are held at fair value on instruments issued by the institution in a manner that is
the balance sheet of the institution; permitted under applicable national law;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/59
(b) effect the call, redemption, repayment or repurchase of (ii) the institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Additional Tier 1 instruments or Tier 2 instruments as competent authorities that the regulatory reclassification
applicable, prior to the date of their contractual maturity. of those instruments was not reasonably foreseeable at
the time of their issuance;
Article 78
(b) there is a change in the applicable tax treatment of those
Supervisory permission for reducing own funds
instruments which the institution demonstrates to the satis­
1. The competent authority shall grant permission for an faction of the competent authorities is material and was not
institution to reduce, repurchase, call or redeem Common reasonably foreseeable at the time of their issuance.
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments where
any of the following conditions is met:
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following:
(a) earlier than or at the same time as the action referred to in
Article 77, the institution replaces the instruments referred
to in Article 77 with own funds instruments of equal or
(a) the meaning of sustainable for the income capacity of the
higher quality at terms that are sustainable for the income
institution;
capacity of the institution;
(b) the appropriate bases of limitation of redemption referred to
(b) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
in paragraph 3;
competent authority that the own funds of the institution
would, following the action in question, exceed the
requirements laid down in Article 92(1) of this Regulation
and the combined buffer requirement as defined in point (6) (c) the process and data requirements for an application by an
of Article 128 of Directive 2013/36/EU by a margin that institution for the permission of the competent authority to
the competent authority may consider necessary on the carry out an action listed in Article 77, including the
basis of Article 104(3) of Directive 2013/36/EU. process to be applied in the case of redemption of shares
issued to members of cooperative societies, and the time
period for processing such an application.
2. When assessing under point (a) of paragraph 1 the
sustainability of the replacement instruments for the income
capacity of the institution, competent authorities shall EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
consider the extent to which those replacement capital the Commission by 1 February 2015.
instruments would be more costly for the institution than
those they would replace.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
3. Where an institution takes an action referred to in point accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
(a) of Article 77 and the refusal of redemption of Common No 1093/2010.
Equity Tier 1 instruments referred to in Article 27 is prohibited
by applicable national law, the competent authority may waive
the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article provided
Article 79
the competent authority requires the institution to limit the
redemption of such instruments on an appropriate basis. Temporary waiver from deduction from own funds
1. Where an institution holds capital instruments or has
granted subordinated loans, as applicable, that qualify as
4. The competent authorities may permit institutions to
Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments
redeem Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments before five
in a financial sector entity temporarily and the competent
years of the date of issue only where the conditions laid
authority deems those holdings to be for the purposes of a
down in paragraph 1 and point (a) or (b) of this paragraph
financial assistance operation designed to reorganise and save
are met:
that entity, the competent authority may waive on a temporary
basis the provisions on deduction that would otherwise apply to
those instruments.
(a) there is a change in the regulatory classification of those
instruments that would be likely to result in their exclusion
from own funds or reclassification as a lower quality form
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
of own funds, and both the following conditions are met:
specify the concept of temporary for the purposes of paragraph
1 and the conditions according to which a competent authority
may deem those temporary holdings to be for the purposes of a
(i) the competent authority considers such a change to be financial assistance operation designed to reorganise and save a
sufficiently certain; relevant entity.
L 176/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to TITLE II
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
MINORITY INTEREST AND ADDITIONAL TIER 1 AND TIER 2
INSTRUMENTS ISSUED BY SUBSIDIARIES
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Article 81
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Minority interests that qualify for inclusion in consolidated
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
Common Equity Tier 1 capital
No 1093/2010.
1. Minority interests shall comprise the sum of Common
Equity Tier 1 instruments, the share premium accounts related
Article 80 to those instruments, retained earnings and other reserves of a
subsidiary where the following conditions are met:
Continuing review of quality of own funds
1. EBA shall monitor the quality of own funds instruments
issued by institutions across the Union and shall notify the (a) the subsidiary is one of the following:
Commission immediately where there is significant evidence
of those instruments not meeting the criteria set out in
Article 28 or, where applicable, Article 29. (i) an institution;
Competent authorities shall, without delay, upon request by (ii) an undertaking that is subject by virtue of applicable
EBA, forward all information that EBA deems relevant national law to the requirements of this Regulation
concerning new capital instruments issued in order to enable and Directive 2013/36/EU;
EBA to monitor the quality of own funds instruments issued by
institutions across the Union.
(b) the subsidiary is included fully in the consolidation pursuant
to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One;
2. A notification shall include the following:
(c) the Common Equity Tier 1 items, referred to in the intro­
ductory part of this paragraph are owned by persons other
(a) a detailed explanation of the nature and extent of the
than the undertakings included in the consolidation
shortfall identified;
pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One.
(b) technical advice on the action by the Commission that EBA
2. Minority interests that are funded directly or indirectly,
considers to be necessary;
through a special purpose entity or otherwise, by the parent
undertaking of the institution, or its subsidiaries shall not
qualify as consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
(c) significant developments in the methodology of EBA for
stress testing the solvency of institutions.
Article 82
3. EBA shall provide technical advice to the Commission on Qualifying Additional Tier 1, Tier 1, Tier 2 capital and
any significant changes it considers to be required to the defi­ qualifying own funds
nition of own funds as a result of any of the following:
Qualifying Additional Tier 1, Tier 1, Tier 2 capital and qual­
ifying own funds shall comprise the minority interest,
Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 instruments, as applicable, plus
(a) relevant developments in market standards or practice; the related retained earnings and share premium accounts, of
a subsidiary where the following conditions are met:
(b) changes in relevant legal or accounting standards;
(a) the subsidiary is either of the following:
(c) significant developments in the methodology of EBA for
stress testing the solvency of institutions. (i) an institution;
4. EBA shall provide technical advice to the Commission by (ii) an undertaking that is subject by virtue of applicable
1 January 2014 on possible treatments of unrealised gains national law to the requirements of this Regulation
measured at fair value other than including them in Common and Directive 2013/36/EU;
Equity Tier 1 without adjustment. Such recommendations shall
take into account relevant developments in international
accounting standards and in international agreements on (b) the subsidiary is included fully in the scope of consolidation
prudential standards for banks. pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/61
(c) those instruments are owned by persons other than the Article 84
undertakings included in the consolidation pursuant to
Minority interests included in consolidated Common
Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One.
Equity Tier 1 capital
1. Institutions shall determine the amount of minority
Article 83 interests of a subsidiary that is included in consolidated
Common Equity Tier 1 capital by subtracting from the
Qualifying Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital issued by a minority interests of that undertaking the result of multiplying
special purpose entity the amount referred to in point (a) by the percentage referred to
in point (b):
1. Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments issued by special
purpose entity, and the related share premium accounts are
included in qualifying Additional Tier 1, Tier 1 or Tier 2
capital or qualifying own funds, as applicable, only where the
following conditions are met: (a) the Common Equity Tier 1 capital of the subsidiary minus
the lower of the following:
(a) the special purpose entity issuing those instruments is
included fully in the consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2
(i) the amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital of that
of Title II of Part One;
subsidiary required to meet the sum of the requirement
laid down in point (a) of Article 92(1), the requirements
referred to in Articles 458 and 459, the specific own
(b) the instruments, and the related share premium accounts,
funds requirements referred to in Article 104 of
are included in qualifying Additional Tier 1 capital only
Directive 2013/36/EU the combined buffer requirement
where the conditions laid down in Article 52(1) are
defined in point (6) of Article 128 of Directive
satisfied;
2013/36/EU, the requirements referred to in Article 500
and any additional local supervisory regulations in third
countries insofar as those requirements are to be met by
(c) the instruments, and the related share premium accounts, Common Equity Tier 1 capital;
are included in qualifying Tier 2 capital only where the
conditions laid down in Article 63 are satisfied;
(ii) the amount of consolidated Common Equity Tier 1
(d) the only asset of the special purpose entity is its investment capital that relates to that subsidiary that is required
in the own funds of the parent undertaking or a subsidiary on a consolidated basis to meet the sum of the
thereof that is included fully in the consolidation pursuant requirement laid down in point (a) of Article 92(1),
to Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One, the form of which the requirements referred to in Articles 458 and 459,
satisfies the relevant conditions laid down in Articles 52(1) the specific own funds requirements referred to in
or 63, as applicable. Article 104 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the combined
buffer requirement defined in point (6) of Article 128
of Directive 2013/36/EU, the requirements referred to in
Article 500 and any additional local supervisory regu­
Where the competent authority considers the assets of a special
lations in third countries insofar as those requirements
purpose entity other than its investment in the own funds of
are to be met by Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
the parent undertaking or a subsidiary thereof that is included
in the scope of consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title II
of Part One, to be minimal and insignificant for such an entity,
the competent authority may waive the condition specified in
(b) the minority interests of the subsidiary expressed as a
point (d) of the first subparagraph.
percentage of all Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of
that undertaking plus the related share premium accounts,
retained earnings and other reserves.
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the types of assets that can relate to the operation of
special purpose entities and the concepts of minimal and insig­
nificant referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1.
2. The calculation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be
undertaken on a sub-consolidated basis for each subsidiary
referred to in Article 81(1).
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
An institution may choose not to undertake this calculation for
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory a subsidiary referred to in Article 81(1). Where an institution
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in takes such a decision, the minority interest of that subsidiary
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) may not be included in consolidated Common Equity Tier 1
No 1093/2010. capital.
L 176/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Where a competent authority derogates from the appli­ exempted from the provisions of this Article regarding
cation of prudential requirements on an individual basis, as laid deductions and may recognise any minority interest arising
down in Article 7, minority interest within the subsidiaries to within the cross-guarantee scheme in full.
which the waiver is applied shall not be recognised in own
funds at the sub-consolidated or at the consolidated level, as
applicable.
Article 85
Qualifying Tier 1 instruments included in consolidated Tier
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to 1 capital
specify the sub-consolidation calculation required in accordance
1. Institutions shall determine the amount of qualifying Tier
with paragraph 2 of this Article, Articles 85 and 87.
1 capital of a subsidiary that is included in consolidated own
funds by subtracting from the own funds of that undertaking
the result of multiplying the amount referred to in point (a) by
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the percentage referred to in point (b):
the Commission by 1 February 2015.
(a) the Tier 1 capital of the subsidiary minus the lower of the
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
following:
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(i) the amount of Tier 1 capital of the subsidiary required
to meet the sum of the requirement laid down in point
(b) of Article 92(1), the requirements referred to in
5. Competent authorities may grant a waiver from the appli­
Articles 458 and 459, the specific own funds
cation of this Article to a parent financial holding company that
requirements referred to in Article 104 of Directive
satisfies all the following conditions:
2013/36/EU, the combined buffer requirement defined
in point (6) of Article 128 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the
requirements referred to in Article 500 and any
(a) its principal activity is to acquire holdings;
additional local supervisory regulations in third
countries insofar as those requirements are to be met
by Tier 1 Capital;
(b) it is subject to prudential supervision on a consolidated
basis;
(ii) the amount of consolidated Tier 1 capital that relates to
the subsidiary that is required on a consolidated basis to
(c) it consolidates a subsidiary institution in which it has only a meet the sum of the requirement laid down in point (b)
minority holding by virtue of the control relationship of Article 92(1), the requirements referred to in Articles
defined in Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC; 458 and 459, the specific own funds requirements
referred to in Article 104 of Directive 2013/36/EU,
the combined buffer requirement defined in point (6)
(d) more than 90 % of the consolidated required Common of Article 128 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the
Equity Tier 1 capital arises from the subsidiary institution requirements referred to in Article 500 and any
referred to in point c) calculated on a sub-consolidated additional local supervisory regulations in third
basis. countries insofar as those requirements are to be met
by Tier 1 Capital;
Where, after 31 December 2014, a parent financial holding
company that meets the conditions laid down in the first (b) the qualifying Tier 1 capital of the subsidiary expressed as a
subparagraph becomes a parent mixed financial holding percentage of all Tier 1 instruments of that undertaking plus
company, competent authorities may grant the waiver referred the related share premium accounts, retained earnings and
to in the first subparagraph to that parent mixed financial other reserves.
holding company provided that it meets the conditions laid
down in that subparagraph.
2. The calculation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be
undertaken on a sub-consolidated basis for each subsidiary
6. Where credit institutions permanently affiliated in a
referred to in Article 81(1).
network to a central body and institutions established within
an institutional protection scheme subject to the conditions laid
down in Article 113(7) have set up a cross-guarantee scheme
that provides that there is no current or foreseen material, An institution may choose not to undertake this calculation for
practical or legal impediment to the transfer of the amount of a subsidiary referred to in Article 81(1). Where an institution
own funds above the regulatory requirements from the takes such a decision, the qualifying Tier 1 capital of that
counterparty to the credit institution, these institutions are subsidiary may not be included in consolidated Tier 1 capital.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/63
3. Where a competent authority derogates from the appli­ (b) the qualifying own funds of the undertaking, expressed as a
cation of prudential requirements on an individual basis, as laid percentage of all own funds instruments of the subsidiary
down in Article 7, Tier 1 instruments within the subsidiaries to that are included in Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier
which the waiver is applied shall not be recognised in own 1 and Tier 2 items and the related share premium accounts,
funds at the sub-consolidated or at the consolidated level, as the retained earnings and other reserves.
applicable.
2. The calculation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be
undertaken on a sub-consolidated basis for each subsidiary
referred to in Article 81(1).
Article 86
Qualifying Tier 1 capital included in consolidated
Additional Tier 1 capital An institution may choose not to undertake this calculation for
a subsidiary referred to in Article 81(1). Where an institution
Without prejudice to Article 84 (5) and (6)), institutions shall
takes such a decision, the qualifying own funds of that
determine the amount of qualifying Tier 1 capital of a
subsidiary may not be included in consolidated own funds.
subsidiary that is included in consolidated Additional Tier 1
capital by subtracting from the qualifying Tier 1 capital of
that undertaking included in consolidated Tier 1 capital the
minority interests of that undertaking that are included in 3. Where a competent authority derogates from the appli­
consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital. cation of prudential requirements on an individual basis, as laid
down in Article 7, own funds instruments within the
subsidiaries to which the waiver is applied shall not be
recognised in own funds at the sub-consolidated or at the
consolidated level, as applicable.
Article 87
Qualifying own funds included in consolidated own funds
Article 88
1. Institutions shall determine the amount of qualifying own
funds of a subsidiary that is included in consolidated own funds Qualifying own funds instruments included in consolidated
by subtracting from the qualifying own funds of that under­ Tier 2 capital
taking the result of multiplying the amount referred to in point
Without prejudice to Article 84(5) and (6), institutions shall
(a) by the percentage referred to in point (b):
determine the amount of qualifying own funds of a subsidiary
that is included in consolidated Tier 2 capital by subtracting
from the qualifying own funds of that undertaking that are
included in consolidated own funds the qualifying Tier 1
(a) the own funds of the subsidiary minus the lower of the capital of that undertaking that is included in consolidated
following: Tier 1 capital.
TITLE III
(i) the amount of own funds of the subsidiary required to QUALIFYING HOLDINGS OUTSIDE THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
meet the sum of the requirement laid down in point (c)
Article 89
of Article 92(1), the requirements referred to in Articles
458 and 459, the specific own funds requirements Risk weighting and prohibition of qualifying holdings
referred to in Article 104 of Directive 2013/36/EU, outside the financial sector
the combined buffer requirement defined in point (6)
of Article 128 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the 1. A qualifying holding, the amount of which exceeds 15 %
requirements referred to in Article 500 and any of the eligible capital of the institution, in an undertaking which
additional local supervisory regulations in third coun­ is not one of the following shall be subject to the provisions
tries; laid down in paragraph 3:
(a) a financial sector entity;
(ii) the amount of own funds that relates to the subsidiary
that is required on a consolidated basis to meet the sum
(b) an undertaking, that is not a financial sector entity, carrying
of the requirement laid down in point (c) of
on activities which the competent authority considers to be
Article 92(1), the requirements referred to in Articles
any of the following:
458 and 459, the specific own funds requirements
referred to in Article 104 of Directive 2013/36/EU,
the combined buffer requirement defined in point (6)
of Article 128 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the (i) a direct extension of banking;
requirements referred to in Article 500 and any
additional local supervisory own funds requirement in
third countries; (ii) ancillary to banking;
L 176/64 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(iii) leasing, factoring, the management of unit trusts, the Article 91
management of data processing services or any other
Exceptions
similar activity.
1. Shares of undertakings not referred to in points (a) and (b)
of Article 89(1) shall not be included in calculating the eligible
2. The total amount of the qualifying holdings of an insti­ capital limits specified in that Article where any of the following
tution in undertakings other than those referred to in points (a) conditions is met:
and (b) of paragraph 1 that exceeds 60 % of its eligible capital
shall be subject to the provisions laid down in paragraph 3.
(a) those shares are held temporarily during a financial
assistance operation as referred to in Article 79;
3. Competent authorities shall apply the requirements laid
down in point (a) or (b) to qualifying holdings of institutions
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2: (b) the holding of those shares is an underwriting position held
for five working days or fewer;
(a) for the purpose of calculating the capital requirement in
accordance with Part Three, institutions shall apply a risk (c) those shares are held in the own name of the institution and
weight of 1 250 % to the greater of the following: on behalf of others.
(i) the amount of qualifying holdings referred to in 2. Shares which are not financial fixed assets as referred to in
paragraph 1 in excess of 15 % of eligible capital; Article 35(2) of Directive 86/635/EEC shall not be included in
the calculation specified in Article 89.
(ii) the total amount of qualifying holdings referred to in
paragraph 2 that exceed 60 % of the eligible capital of PART THREE
the institution;
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
TITLE I
(b) the competent authorities shall prohibit institutions from
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS, VALUATION AND REPORTING
having qualifying holdings referred to in paragraphs 1 and
2 the amount of which exceeds the percentages of eligible CHAPTER 1
capital laid down in those paragraphs.
Required level of own funds
S e c t i o n 1
Competent authorities shall publish their choice of (a) or (b).
O w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s f o r i n s t i t u t i o n s
Article 92
4. For the purposes of point (b) of paragraph 1, EBA shall
issue guidelines specifying the following concepts: Own funds requirements
1. Subject to Articles 93 and 94, institutions shall at all
times satisfy the following own funds requirements:
(a) activities that are a direct extension of banking;
(a) a Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4,5 %;
(b) activities ancillary to banking;
(b) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6 %;
(c) similar activities.
(c) a total capital ratio of 8 %.
Those guidelines shall be adopted in accordance with Article 16
of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
2. Institutions shall calculate their capital ratios as follows:
Article 90
(a) the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio is the Common
Alternative to 1 250 % risk weight
Equity Tier 1 capital of the institution expressed as a
As an alternative to applying a 1 250 % risk weight to the percentage of the total risk exposure amount;
amounts in excess of the limits specified in Article 89(1) and
(2), institutions may deduct those amounts from Common
Equity Tier 1 items in accordance with point (k) of (b) the Tier 1 capital ratio is the Tier 1 capital of the institution
Article 36(1). expressed as a percentage of the total risk exposure amount;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/65
(c) the total capital ratio is the own funds of the institution (iii) margin lending transactions based on securities or
expressed as a percentage of the total risk exposure amount. commodities;
3. Total risk exposure amount shall be calculated as the sum
of points (a) to (f) of this paragraph after taking into account (iv) long settlement transactions.
the provisions laid down in paragraph 4:
(a) the risk weighted exposure amounts for credit risk and 4. The following provisions shall apply in the calculation of
dilution risk, calculated in accordance with Title II and the total exposure amount referred to in paragraph 3:
Article 379, in respect of all the business activities of an
institution, excluding risk weighted exposure amounts from
the trading book business of the institution;
(a) the own funds requirements referred to in points (c), (d) and
(e) of that paragraph shall include those arising from all the
(b) the own funds requirements, determined in accordance with business activities of an institution;
Title IV of this Part or Part Four, as applicable, for the
trading-book business of an institution, for the following:
(b) institutions shall multiply the own funds requirements set
(i) position risk; out in points (b) to (e) of that paragraph by 12,5.
(ii) large exposures exceeding the limits specified in Articles
395 to 401, to the extent an institution is permitted to Article 93
exceed those limits;
Initial capital requirement on going concern
1. The own funds of an institution may not fall below the
(c) the own funds requirements determined in accordance with amount of initial capital required at the time of its authori­
Title IV or Title V with the exception of Article 379, as sation.
applicable, for the following:
(i) foreign-exchange risk; 2. Credit institutions that were already in existence on
1 January 1993, the amount of own funds of which do not
attain the amount of initial capital required may continue to
(ii) settlement risk; carry out their activities. In that event, the amount of own
funds of those institutions may not fall below the highest
level reached with effect from 22 December 1989.
(iii) commodities risk;
(d) the own funds requirements calculated in accordance with 3. Authorised investment firms and firms that were covered
Title VI for credit valuation adjustment risk of OTC by Article 6 of Directive 2006/49/EC which were in existence
derivative instruments other than credit derivatives before 31 December 1995, the amount of own funds of which
recognised to reduce risk-weighted exposure amounts for do not attain the amount of initial capital required may
credit risk; continue to carry out their activities. The own funds of such
firms or investment firms shall not fall below the highest
reference level calculated after the date of notification
(e) the own funds requirements determined in accordance with contained in Council Directive 93/6/EEC of 15 March 1993
Title III for operational risk; on the capital adequacy of investments firms and credit institu­
tions ( 1 ). That reference level shall be the average daily level of
own funds calculated over a six month period preceding the
(f) the risk weighted exposure amounts determined in date of calculation. It shall be calculated every six months in
accordance with Title II for counterparty risk arising from respect of the corresponding preceding period.
the trading book business of the institution for the
following types of transactions and agreements:
4. Where control of an institution falling within the category
(i) contracts listed in Annex II and credit derivatives; referred to in paragraph 2 or 3 is taken by a natural or legal
person other than the person who controlled the institution
previously, the amount of own funds of that institution shall
(ii) repurchase transactions, securities or commodities attain the amount of initial capital required.
lending or borrowing transactions based on securities
or commodities; ( 1 ) OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 1.
L 176/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. Where there is a merger of two or more institutions activities listed in points (3) and (6) of Section A of Annex I
falling within the category referred to in paragraph 2 or 3, to Directive 2004/39/EC shall use the calculation of the total
the amount of own funds of the institution resulting from risk exposure amount specified in paragraph 2.
the merger shall not fall below the total own funds of the
merged institutions at the time of the merger, as long as the
amount of initial capital required has not been attained.
2. Investment firms referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article
and firms referred to in point (2)(c) of Article 4(1) that provide
6. Where competent authorities consider it necessary to the investment services and activities listed in points (2) and (4)
ensure the solvency of an institution that the requirement laid of Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC shall calculate
down in paragraph 1 is met, the provisions laid down in para­ the total risk exposure amount as the higher of the following:
graphs 2 to 5 shall not apply.
Article 94 (a) the sum of the items referred to in points (a) to (d) and (f)
of Article 92(3) after applying Article 92(4);
Derogation for small trading book business
1. Institutions may replace the capital requirement referred
to in point (b) of Article 92(3) by a capital requirement
calculated in accordance with point (a) of that paragraph in (b) 12,5 multiplied by the amount specified in Article 97.
respect of their trading-book business, provided that the size
of their on- and off-balance sheet trading-book business meets
both the following conditions:
Firms referred to in point (2)(c) of Article 4(1) that provide the
investment services and activities listed in points (2) and (4) of
(a) is normally less than 5 % of the total assets and EUR 15 Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC shall meet the
million; requirements in Article 92(1) and (2) based on the total risk
exposure amount referred to in the first subparagraph.
(b) never exceeds 6 % of total assets and EUR 20 million.
Competent authorities may set the own fund requirements for
2. In calculating the size of on- and off-balance sheet firms referred to in point (2)(c) of Article 4(1) that provide the
business, institutions shall apply the following: investment services and activities listed in points (2) and (4) of
Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC as the own fund
requirements that would be binding on those firms according to
(a) debt instruments shall be valued at their market prices or the national transposition measures in force on 31 December
their nominal values, equities at their market prices and 2013 for Directives 2006/49/EC and 2006/48/EC.
derivatives according to the nominal or market values of
the instruments underlying them;
3. Investment firms referred to in paragraph 1 are subject to
(b) the absolute value of long positions shall be summed with all other provisions regarding operational risk laid down in Title
the absolute value of short positions. VII, Chapter 3, Section II, Sub-section 1 of Directive
2013/36/EU.
3. Where an institution fails to meet the condition in point
(b) of paragraph 1 it shall immediately notify the competent
authority. If, following assessment by the competent authority, Article 96
the competent authority determines and notifies the institution
that the requirement in point (a) of paragraph 1 is not met, the Own funds requirements for investment firms which hold
institution shall cease to make use of paragraph 1 from the next initial capital as laid down in Article 28(2) of Directive
reporting date. 2013/36/EU
1. For the purposes of Article 92(3), the following categories
of investment firm which hold initial capital in accordance with
S e c t i o n 2
Article 28(2) of Directive 2013/36/EU shall use the calculation
O w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s f o r i n v e s t m e n t of the total risk exposure amount specified in paragraph 2 of
f i r m s w i t h l i m i t e d a u t h o r i s a t i o n t o this Article:
p r o v i d e i n v e s t m e n t s e r v i c e s
Article 95
(a) investment firms that deal on own account only for the
Own funds requirements for investment firms with limited
purpose of fulfilling or executing a client order or for the
authorisation to provide investment services
purpose of gaining entrance to a clearing and settlement
1. For the purposes of Article 92(3), investment firms that system or a recognised exchange when acting in an
are not authorised to provide the investment services and agency capacity or executing a client order;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/67
(b) investment firms that meet all the following conditions: (a) the calculation of the requirement to hold eligible capital of
at least one quarter of the fixed overheads of the previous
year;
(i) that do not hold client money or securities;
(b) the conditions for the adjustment by the competent
(ii) that undertake only dealing on own account; authority of the requirement to hold eligible capital of at
least one quarter of the fixed overheads of the previous year;
(iii) that have no external customers;
(c) the calculation of projected fixed overheads in the case of an
investment firm that has not completed business for one
(iv) for which the execution and settlement whose trans­ year.
actions takes place under the responsibility of a
clearing institution and are guaranteed by that
clearing institution.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 March 2014.
2. For investment firms referred to in paragraph 1, total risk
exposure amount shall be calculated as the sum of the
following: Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) points (a) to (d) and (f) of Article 92(3) after applying
Article 92(4);
Article 98
(b) the amount referred to in Article 97 multiplied by 12,5.
Own funds for investment firms on a consolidated basis
1. In the case of the investment firms referred to in
Article 95(1) in a group, where that group does not include
3. Investment firms referred to in paragraph 1 are subject to
credit institutions, a parent investment firm in a Member State
all other provisions regarding operational risk laid down in Title
shall apply Article 92 at a consolidated level as follows:
VII, Chapter 3, Section II, Sub-section 1 of Directive
2013/36/EU.
(a) using the calculation of total risk exposure amount specified
Article 97 in Article 95(2);
Own Funds based on Fixed Overheads
1. In accordance with Articles 95 and 96, an investment firm (b) own funds calculated on the basis of the consolidated
and firms referred to in point (2)(c) of Article 4(1) that provide situation of the parent investment firm or that of the
the investment services and activities listed in points (2) and (4) financial holding company or mixed financial holding
of Section A of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC shall hold company, as applicable.
eligible capital of at least one quarter of the fixed overheads of
the preceding year.
2. In the case of investment firms referred to in Article 96(1)
in a group, where that group does not include credit institu­
2. Where there is a change in the business of an investment
tions, a parent investment firm in a Member State and an
firm since the preceding year that the competent authority
investment firm controlled by a financial holding company or
considers to be material, the competent authority may adjust
mixed financial holding company shall apply Article 92 on a
the requirement laid down in paragraph 1.
consolidated basis as follows:
3. Where an investment firm has not completed business for
one year, starting from the day it starts up, an investment firm (a) it shall use the calculation of total risk exposure amount
shall hold eligible capital of at least one quarter of the fixed specified in Article 96(2);
overheads projected in its business plan, except where the
competent authority requires the business plan to be adjusted.
(b) it shall use own funds calculated on the basis of the
consolidated situation of the parent investment firm or
4. EBA in consultation with ESMA shall develop draft regu­ that of the financial holding company or mixed financial
latory technical standards to specify in greater detail the holding company, as applicable, and in compliance with
following: Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One.
L 176/68 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
CHAPTER 2 comprehensive view of the risk profile of the activities of, and a
view of the systemic risks to the financial sector or the real
Calculation and reporting requirements
economy posed by, institutions other than those referred to in
Article 99 paragraphs2 and 3 that are subject to an accounting framework
based on Directive 86/635/EEC, the competent authority shall
Reporting on own funds requirements and financial consult EBA on the extension of the reporting requirements of
information financial information on a consolidated basis to those institu­
tions, provided that they are not already reporting on such a
1. Reporting by institutions to the competent authorities on
basis.
the obligations laid down in Article 92 shall be carried out at
least on a semi-annual basis.
EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to
specify the formats to be used by institutions to which the
2. Institutions subject to Article 4 of Regulation (EC)
competent authorities may extend the reporting requirements
No 1606/2002 and credit institutions other than those
in accordance with the first subparagraph.
referred to in Article 4 of that Regulation that prepare their
consolidated accounts in conformity with the international
accounting standards adopted in accordance with the
procedure laid down in Article 6(2) of that Regulation, shall
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
also report financial information.
to the Commission by 1 February 2015.
3. Competent authorities may require those credit insti­
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
tutions applying international accounting standards as
menting technical standards referred to in the second
applicable under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 for the
subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
reporting of own funds on a consolidated basis pursuant to
(EU) No 1093/2010.
Article 24(2) of this Regulation to also report financial
information as laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article.
7. Where a competent authority considers information not
covered by the implementing technical standards referred to in
4. The financial information referred to in paragraph 2 and
paragraph 5 to be necessary for the purposes set out in
in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 shall be reported to the
paragraph 4, it shall notify EBA and the ESRB about the
extent this is necessary to obtain a comprehensive view of the
additional information it deems necessary to include in the
risk profile of an institution's activities and a view on the
implementing technical standards referred to in paragraph 5.
systemic risks posed by institutions to the financial sector or
the real economy in accordance with Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
Article 100
Additional reporting requirements
5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
Institutions shall report to the competent authorities the level,
to specify the uniform formats, frequencies, dates of reporting,
at least in aggregate terms, of their repurchase agreements,
definitions and the IT solutions to be applied in the Union for
securities lending and all forms of encumbrance of assets.
the reporting referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4.
EBA shall include this information in the implementing
The reporting requirements shall be proportionate to the nature,
technical standards on reporting referred to in Article 99(5).
scale and complexity of the activities of the institutions.
Article 101
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 1 February 2015. Specific reporting obligations
1. Institutions shall report on a semi-annual basis the
following data to the competent authorities for each national
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ property market to which they are exposed:
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) losses stemming from exposures for which an institution
has recognised immovable residential property as collateral,
up to the lower of the pledged amount and 80 % of the
6. Where a competent authority considers that the financial market value or 80 % of the mortgage lending value unless
information required by paragraph 2 is necessary to obtain a otherwise decided under Article 124(2);
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/69
(b) overall losses stemming from exposures for which an insti­ (b) uniform formats, definitions, frequencies and dates of
tution has recognised immovable residential property as reporting, as well as IT solutions, of the aggregate data
collateral, up to the part of the exposure treated as fully referred to in paragraph 2.
secured by immovable residential property in accordance
with Article 124(1);
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 1 February 2015.
(c) the exposure value of all outstanding exposures for which
an institution has recognised immovable residential property
as collateral limited to the part treated as fully secured by Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
immovable residential property in accordance with menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
Article 124(1); in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(d) losses stemming from exposures for which an institution
CHAPTER 3
has recognised immovable commercial property as
collateral, up to the lower of the pledged amount and Trading book
50 % of the market value or 60 % of the mortgage
Article 102
lending value unless otherwise decided under Article 124(2);
Requirements for the Trading Book
1. Positions in the trading book shall be either free of
(e) overall losses stemming from exposures for which an insti­
restrictions on their tradability or able to be hedged.
tution has recognised immovable commercial property as
collateral, up to the part of the exposure treated as fully
secured by immovable commercial property in accordance
2. Trading intent shall be evidenced on the basis of the
with Article 124(1).
strategies, policies and procedures set up by the institution to
manage the position or portfolio in accordance with
Article 103.
(f) the exposure value of all outstanding exposures for which
an institution has recognised immovable commercial
property as collateral limited to the part treated as fully 3. Institutions shall establish and maintain systems and
secured by immovable commercial property in accordance controls to manage their trading book in accordance with
with Article 124(1). Articles 104 and 105.
2. The data referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reported to 4. Institutions may include internal hedges in the calculation
the competent authority of the home Member State of the of capital requirements for position risk provided that they are
relevant institution. Where an institution has a branch in held with trading intent and that the requirements of Articles
another Member State, the data relating to that branch shall 103 to 106 are met.
also be reported to the competent authorities of the host
Member State. The data shall be reported separately for each
property market within the Union to which the relevant insti­ Article 103
tution is exposed.
Management of the trading book
In managing its positions or sets of positions in the trading
book the institution shall comply with all of the following
3. The competent authorities shall publish annually on an
requirements:
aggregated basis the data specified in points (a) to (f) of
paragraph 1, together with historical data, where available. A
competent authority shall, upon the request of another
competent authority in a Member State or EBA provide to (a) the institution shall have in place a clearly documented
that competent authority or EBA more detailed information trading strategy for the position/instrument or portfolios,
on the condition of the residential or commercial immovable approved by senior management, which shall include the
property markets in that Member State. expected holding period;
(b) the institution shall have in place clearly defined policies
4. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
and procedures for the active management of positions
to specify the following:
entered into on a trading desk. Those policies and
procedures shall include the following:
(a) uniform formats, definitions, frequencies and dates of
reporting, as well as the IT solutions, of the items referred (i) which positions may be entered into by which trading
to in paragraph 1; desk;
L 176/70 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(ii) position limits are set and monitored for appropri­ (ii) hedge all material risks of the position with instruments
ateness; for which an active, liquid two-way market exists;
(iii) dealers have the autonomy to enter into and manage
(iii) derive reliable estimates for the key assumptions and
the position within agreed limits and according to the
parameters used in the model;
approved strategy;
(iv) positions are reported to senior management as an (d) the extent to which the institution can, and is required to,
integral part of the institution's risk management generate valuations for the position that can be validated
process; externally in a consistent manner;
(v) positions are actively monitored with reference to
(e) the extent to which legal restrictions or other operational
market information sources and an assessment made
requirements would impede the institution's ability to effect
of the marketability or hedge-ability of the position
a liquidation or hedge of the position in the short term;
or its component risks, including the assessment, the
quality and availability of market inputs to the valuation
process, level of market turnover, sizes of positions
traded in the market; (f) the extent to which the institution can, and is required to,
actively manage the risks of positions within its trading
operation;
(vi) active anti fraud procedures and controls.
(c) the institution shall have in place clearly defined policies (g) the extent to which the institution may transfer risk or
and procedures to monitor the positions against the insti­ positions between the non-trading and trading books and
tution's trading strategy including the monitoring of the criteria for such transfers.
turnover and positions for which the originally intended
holding period has been exceeded.
Article 105
Article 104 Requirements for Prudent Valuation
Inclusion in the Trading Book 1. All trading book positions shall be subject to the
standards for prudent valuation specified in this Article. Insti­
1. Institutions shall have in place clearly defined policies and
tutions shall in particular ensure that the prudent valuation of
procedures for determining which position to include in the
their trading book positions achieves an appropriate degree of
trading book for the purposes of calculating their capital
certainty having regard to the dynamic nature of trading book
requirements, in accordance with the requirements set out in
positions, the demands of prudential soundness and the mode
Article 102 and the definition of trading book in accordance
of operation and purpose of capital requirements in respect of
with point (86) of Article 4(1), taking into account the institu­
trading book positions.
tion's risk management capabilities and practices. The institution
shall fully document its compliance with these policies and
procedures and shall subject them to periodic internal audit.
2. Institutions shall establish and maintain systems and
controls sufficient to provide prudent and reliable valuation
2. Institutions shall have in place clearly defined policies and estimates. Those systems and controls shall include at least
procedures for the overall management of the trading book. the following elements:
These policies and procedures shall at least address:
(a) documented policies and procedures for the process of valu­
(a) the activities the institution considers to be trading and as
ation, including clearly defined responsibilities of the various
constituting part of the trading book for own funds
areas involved in the determination of the valuation, sources
requirement purposes;
of market information and review of their appropriateness,
guidelines for the use of unobservable inputs reflecting the
institution's assumptions of what market participants would
(b) the extent to which a position can be marked-to-market
use in pricing the position, frequency of independent valu­
daily by reference to an active, liquid two-way market;
ation, timing of closing prices, procedures for adjusting
valuations, month end and ad-hoc verification procedures;
(c) for positions that are marked-to-model, the extent to which
the institution can:
(b) reporting lines for the department accountable for the
valuation process that are clear and independent of the
(i) identify all material risks of the position; front office.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/71
The reporting line shall ultimately be to the management body. include assessing the continued appropriateness of assump­
tions, analysis of profit and loss versus risk factors, and
comparison of actual close out values to model outputs.
3. Institutions shall revalue trading book positions at least
daily.
For the purposes of point (d), the model shall be developed or
4. Institutions shall mark their positions to market whenever approved independently of the trading desk and shall be inde­
possible, including when applying trading book capital pendently tested, including validation of the mathematics,
treatment. assumptions and software implementation.
5. When marking to market, an institution shall use the
more prudent side of bid and offer unless the institution can 8. Institutions shall perform independent price verification in
close out at mid market. Where institutions make use of this addition to daily marking to market or marking to model.
derogation, they shall every six months inform their competent Verification of market prices and model inputs shall be
authorities of the positions concerned and furnish evidence that performed by a person or unit independent from persons or
they can close out at mid-market. units that benefit from the trading book, at least monthly, or
more frequently depending on the nature of the market or
trading activity. Where independent pricing sources are not
available or pricing sources are more subjective, prudent
6. Where marking to market is not possible, institutions
measures such as valuation adjustments may be appropriate.
shall conservatively mark to model their positions and port­
folios, including when calculating own funds requirements for
positions in the trading book.
9. Institutions shall establish and maintain procedures for
considering valuation adjustments.
7. Institutions shall comply with the following requirements
when marking to model:
10. Institutions shall formally consider the following
(a) senior management shall be aware of the elements of the
valuation adjustments: unearned credit spreads, close-out costs,
trading book or of other fair-valued positions which are
operational risks, market price uncertainty, early termination,
subject to mark to model and shall understand the
investing and funding costs, future administrative costs and,
materiality of the uncertainty thereby created in the
where relevant, model risk.
reporting of the risk/performance of the business;
(b) institutions shall source market inputs, where possible, in
11. Institutions shall establish and maintain procedures for
line with market prices, and shall assess the appropriateness
calculating an adjustment to the current valuation of any less
of the market inputs of the particular position being valued
liquid positions, which can in particular arise from market
and the parameters of the model on a frequent basis;
events or institution-related situations such as concentrated
positions and/or positions for which the originally intended
holding period has been exceeded. Institutions shall, where
(c) where available, institutions shall use valuation method­
necessary, make such adjustments in addition to any changes
ologies which are accepted market practice for particular
to the value of the position required for financial reporting
financial instruments or commodities;
purposes and shall design such adjustments to reflect the
illiquidity of the position. Under those procedures, institutions
shall consider several factors when determining whether a
(d) where the model is developed by the institution itself, it
valuation adjustment is necessary for less liquid positions.
shall be based on appropriate assumptions, which have
Those factors include the following:
been assessed and challenged by suitably qualified parties
independent of the development process;
(a) the amount of time it would take to hedge out the position
(e) institutions shall have in place formal change control or the risks within the position;
procedures and shall hold a secure copy of the model and
use it periodically to check valuations;
(b) the volatility and average of bid/offer spreads;
(f) risk management shall be aware of the weaknesses of the
models used and how best to reflect those in the valuation
output; and
(c) the availability of market quotes (number and identity of
market makers) and the volatility and average of trading
(g) institutions' models shall be subject to periodic review to volumes including trading volumes during periods of
determine the accuracy of their performance, which shall market stress;
L 176/72 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) market concentrations; Monitoring shall be ensured by adequate procedures.
(e) the ageing of positions;
2. The requirements of paragraph 1 apply without prejudice
(f) the extent to which valuation relies on marking-to-model; to the requirements applicable to the hedged position in the
non-trading book.
(g) the impact of other model risks.
12. When using third party valuations or marking to model, 3. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, when an
institutions shall consider whether to apply a valuation institution hedges a non-trading book credit risk exposure or
adjustment. In addition, institutions shall consider the need counterparty risk exposure using a credit derivative booked in
for establishing adjustments for less liquid positions and on its trading book using an internal hedge, the non-trading book
an ongoing basis review their continued suitability. Institutions exposure or counterparty risk exposure shall not be deemed to
shall also explicitly assess the need for valuation adjustments be hedged for the purposes of calculating risk weighted
relating to the uncertainty of parameter inputs used by models. exposure amounts unless the institution purchases from an
eligible third party protection provider a corresponding credit
derivative meeting the requirements for unfunded credit
13. With regard to complex products, including securiti­
protection in the non-trading book. Without prejudice to
sation exposures and n-th-to-default credit derivatives, insti­
point (h) of Article 299(2), where such third party protection
tutions shall explicitly assess the need for valuation adjustments
is purchased and recognised as a hedge of a non-trading book
to reflect the model risk associated with using a possibly
exposure for the purposes of calculating capital requirements,
incorrect valuation methodology and the model risk associated
neither the internal nor external credit derivative hedge shall be
with using unobservable (and possibly incorrect) calibration
included in the trading book for the purposes of calculating
parameters in the valuation model.
capital requirements.
14. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the conditions according to which the requirements of
Article 105 shall be applied for the purposes of paragraph 1 of TITLE II
this Article.
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CREDIT RISK
CHAPTER 1
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2015. General principles
Article 107
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
Approaches to credit risk
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) 1. Institutions shall apply either the Standardised Approach
No 1093/2010. provided for in Chapter 2 or, if permitted by the competent
authorities in accordance with Article 143, the Internal Ratings
Based Approach provided for in Chapter 3 to calculate their
Article 106
risk-weighted exposure amounts for the purposes of points (a)
Internal Hedges and (f) of Article 92(3).
1. An internal hedge shall in particular meet the following
requirements:
2. For trade exposures and for default fund contributions to
(a) it shall not be primarily intended to avoid or reduce own a central counterparty, institutions shall apply the treatment set
funds requirements; out in Chapter 6, Section 9 to calculate their risk-weighted
exposure amounts for the purposes of points (a) and (f) of
Article 92(3). For all other types of exposures to a central
(b) it shall be properly documented and subject to particular counterparty, institutions shall treat those exposures as follows:
internal approval and audit procedures;
(c) it shall be dealt with at market conditions;
(a) as exposures to an institution for other types of exposures
to a qualifying CCP;
(d) the market risk that is generated by the internal hedge shall
be dynamically managed in the trading book within the
authorised limits;
(b) as exposures to a corporate for other types of exposures to
(e) it shall be carefully monitored. a non-qualifying CCP.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/73
3. For the purposes of this Regulation, exposures to third- exposure would be assigned under Article 147 it shall calculate
country investment firms and exposures to third country credit the risk-weighted exposure amount in accordance with Articles
institutions and exposures to third country clearing houses and 245, 246 and 259 to 266.
exchanges shall be treated as exposures to an institution only if
the third country applies prudential and supervisory
requirements to that entity that are at least equivalent to
those applied in the Union.
Except for the Internal Assessment Approach, where the IRB
Approach is used only for a part of the securitised exposures
underlying a securitisation, the institution shall use the
approach corresponding to the predominant share of securitised
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, the Commission may
exposures underlying this securitisation.
adopt, by way of implementing acts, and subject to the exam­
ination procedure referred to in Article 464(2), a decision as to
whether a third country applies prudential supervisory and regu­
latory requirements at least equivalent to those applied in the
Union. In the absence of such a decision, until 1 January 2015, Article 110
institutions may continue to treat exposures to the entities
Treatment of credit risk adjustment
referred to in paragraph 3 as exposures to institutions
provided that the relevant competent authorities had approved 1. Institutions applying the Standardised Approach shall treat
the third country as eligible for that treatment before 1 January general credit risk adjustments in accordance with Article 62(c).
2014.
Article 108 2. Institutions applying the IRB Approach shall treat general
credit risk adjustments in accordance with Article 159,
Use of credit risk mitigation technique under the Article 62(d) and Article 36(1)(d).
Standardised Approach and the IRB Approach
1. For an exposure to which an institution applies the Stan­
dardised Approach under Chapter 2 or applies the IRB
Approach under Chapter 3 but without using its own For the purposes of this Article and Chapters 2 and 3, general
estimates of loss given default (LGD) and conversion factors and specific credit risk adjustments shall exclude funds for
under Article 151, the institution may use credit risk mitigation general banking risk.
in accordance with Chapter 4 in the calculation of risk-weighted
exposure amounts for the purposes of points (a) and (f) of
Article 92(3) or, as relevant, expected loss amounts for the
purposes of the calculation referred to in point (d) of
3. Institutions using the IRB Approach that apply the Stan­
Article 36(1) and point (c) of Article 62.
dardised Approach for a part of their exposures on consolidated
or individual basis, in accordance with Articles 148 and 150
shall determine the part of general credit risk adjustment that
shall be assigned to the treatment of general credit risk
2. For an exposure to which an institution applies the IRB
adjustment under the Standardised Approach and to the
Approach by using their own estimates of LGD and conversion
treatment of general credit risk adjustment under the IRB
factors under Article 151, the institution may use credit risk
Approach as follows:
mitigation in accordance with Chapter 3.
Article 109 (a) where applicable when an institution included in the
consolidation exclusively applies the IRB Approach,
Treatment of securitised exposures under the Standardised
general credit risk adjustments of this institution shall be
Approach and the IRB Approach
assigned to the treatment set out in paragraph 2;
1. Where an institution uses the Standardised Approach
under Chapter 2 for the calculation of risk-weighted exposure
amounts for the exposure class to which the securitised
exposures would be assigned under Article 112, it shall
(b) where applicable, when an institution included in the
calculate the risk-weighted exposure amount for a securitisation
consolidation exclusively applies the Standardised
position in accordance with Articles 245, 246 and 251 to 258.
Approach, general credit risk adjustment of this institution
Institutions using the Standardised Approach may also use the
shall be assigned to the treatment set out in paragraph 1;
Internal Assessment Approach where this has been permitted
under Article 259(3).
(c) The remainder of credit risk adjustment shall be assigned on
2. Where an institution uses the IRB Approach under a pro rata basis according to the proportion of risk
Chapter 3 for the calculation of risk-weighted exposures weighted exposure amounts subject to the Standardised
amounts for the exposure class to which the securitised Approach and subject to the IRB Approach.
L 176/74 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to The off-balance sheet items referred to in the second sentence
specify the calculation of specific credit risk adjustments and of the first subparagraph shall be assigned to risk categories as
general credit risk adjustments under the applicable accounting indicated in Annex I.
framework for the following:
When an institution is using the Financial Collateral Compre­
(a) exposure value under the Standardised Approach referred to hensive Method under Article 223, the exposure value of
in Article 111; securities or commodities sold, posted or lent under a
repurchase transaction or under a securities or commodities
lending or borrowing transaction, and margin lending trans­
actions shall be increased by the volatility adjustment appro­
(b) exposure value under the IRB Approach referred to in
priate to such securities or commodities as prescribed in Articles
Articles 166 to 168;
223 to 225.
(c) treatment of expected loss amounts referred to in
2. The exposure value of a derivative instrument listed in
Article 159;
Annex II shall be determined in accordance with Chapter 6
with the effects of contracts of novation and other netting
agreements taken into account for the purposes of those
(d) exposure value for the calculation of the risk-weighted
methods in accordance with Chapter 6. The exposure value of
exposure amounts for securitisation position referred to in
repurchase transaction, securities or commodities lending or
Articles 246 and 266;
borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and
margin lending transactions may be determined either in
accordance with Chapter 6 or Chapter 4.
(e) the determination of default under Article 178.
3. Where an exposure is subject to funded credit protection,
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the exposure value applicable to that item may be amended in
the Commission by 1 February 2015. accordance with Chapter 4.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Article 112
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Exposure classes
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. Each exposure shall be assigned to one of the following
exposure classes:
CHAPTER 2
(a) exposures to central governments or central banks;
Standardised Approach
S e c t i o n 1
(b) exposures to regional governments or local authorities;
G e n e r a l p r i n c i p l e s
Article 111
(c) exposures to public sector entities;
Exposure value
1. The exposure value of an asset item shall be its accounting
(d) exposures to multilateral development banks;
value remaining after specific credit risk adjustments, additional
value adjustments in accordance with Articles 34 and 110 and
other own funds reductions related to the asset item have been
(e) exposures to international organisations;
applied. The exposure value of an off-balance sheet item listed
in Annex I shall be the following percentage of its nominal
value after reduction of specific credit risk adjustments:
(f) exposures to institutions;
(a) 100 % if it is a full-risk item;
(g) exposures to corporates;
(b) 50 % if it is a medium-risk item; (h) retail exposures;
(c) 20 % if it is a medium/low-risk item; (i) exposures secured by mortgages on immovable property;
(d) 0 % if it is a low-risk item. (j) exposures in default;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/75
(k) exposures associated with particularly high risk; (a) the counterparty is an institution, a financial holding
company or a mixed financial holding company, financial
institution, asset management company or ancillary services
(l) exposures in the form of covered bonds; undertaking subject to appropriate prudential requirements;
(m) items representing securitisation positions;
(b) the counterparty is included in the same consolidation as
the institution on a full basis;
(n) exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term
credit assessment;
(c) the counterparty is subject to the same risk evaluation,
measurement and control procedures as the institution;
(o) exposures in the form of units or shares in collective
investment undertakings ('CIUs');
(d) the counterparty is established in the same Member State as
(p) equity exposures;
the institution;
(q) other items.
(e) there is no current or foreseen material practical or legal
impediment to the prompt transfer of own funds or
Article 113 repayment of liabilities from the counterparty to the insti­
tution.
Calculation of risk weighted exposure amounts
1. To calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts, risk weights
shall be applied to all exposures, unless deducted from own
funds, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2. The Where the institution, in accordance with this paragraph, is
application of risk weights shall be based on the exposure authorised not to apply the requirements of paragraph 1, it
class to which the exposure is assigned and, to the extent may assign a risk weight of 0 %.
specified in Section 2, its credit quality. Credit quality may be
determined by reference to the credit assessments of ECAIs or
the credit assessments of Export Credit Agencies in accordance
7. With the exception of exposures giving rise to Common
with Section 3.
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 items, institutions
may, subject to the prior permission of the competent auth­
orities, not apply the requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article
2. For the purposes of applying a risk weight, as referred to
to exposures to counterparties with which the institution has
in paragraph 1, the exposure value shall be multiplied by the
entered into an institutional protection scheme that is a
risk weight specified or determined in accordance with Section
contractual or statutory liability arrangement which protects
2.
those institutions and in particular ensures their liquidity and
solvency to avoid bankruptcy where necessary. Competent auth­
orities are empowered to grant permission if the following
3. Where an exposure is subject to credit protection the risk
conditions are fulfilled:
weight applicable to that item may be amended in accordance
with Chapter 4.
(a) the requirements set out in points (a), (d) and (e) of
4. Risk-weighted exposure amounts for securitised exposures
paragraph 6 are met;
shall be calculated in accordance with Chapter 5.
5. Exposures for which no calculation is provided in Section (b) the arrangements ensure that the institutional protection
2 shall be assigned a risk-weight of 100 %. scheme is able to grant support necessary under its
commitment from funds readily available to it;
6. With the exception of exposures giving rise to Common
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 items, an institution
may, subject to the prior approval of the competent authorities, (c) the institutional protection scheme disposes of suitable and
decide not to apply the requirements of paragraph 1 of this uniformly stipulated systems for the monitoring and clas­
Article to the exposures of that institution to a counterparty sification of risk, which gives a complete overview of the
which is its parent undertaking, its subsidiary, a subsidiary of its risk situations of all the individual members and the insti­
parent undertaking or an undertaking linked by a relationship tutional protection scheme as a whole, with corresponding
within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC. possibilities to take influence; those systems shall suitably
Competent authorities are empowered to grant approval if the monitor defaulted exposures in accordance with
following conditions are fulfilled: Article 178(1);
L 176/76 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) the institutional protection scheme conducts its own risk Table 1
review which is communicated to the individual members;
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6
Risk weight 0 % 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 150 %
(e) the institutional protection scheme draws up and publishes
on an annual basis, a consolidated report comprising the
balance sheet, the profit-and-loss account, the situation 3. Exposures to the ECB shall be assigned a 0 % risk weight.
report and the risk report, concerning the institutional
protection scheme as a whole, or a report comprising the
aggregated balance sheet, the aggregated profit-and-loss
4. Exposures to Member States' central governments, and
account, the situation report and the risk report, concerning
central banks denominated and funded in the domestic
the institutional protection scheme as a whole;
currency of that central government and central bank shall be
assigned a risk weight of 0 %.
(f) members of the institutional protection scheme are obliged
to give advance notice of at least 24 months if they wish to 5. Until 31 December 2017, the same risk weight shall be
end the institutional protection scheme; assigned in relation to exposures to the central governments or
central banks of Member States denominated and funded in the
domestic currency of any Member State as would be applied to
such exposures denominated and funded in their domestic
(g) the multiple use of elements eligible for the calculation of currency.
own funds (hereinafter referred to as 'multiple gearing') as
well as any inappropriate creation of own funds between
the members of the institutional protection scheme shall be
6. For exposures indicated in paragraph 5:
eliminated;
(a) in 2018 the calculated risk weighted exposure amounts
(h) The institutional protection scheme shall be based on a shall be 20 % of the risk weight assigned to these
broad membership of credit institutions of a predominantly exposures in accordance with Article 114(2);
homogeneous business profile;
(b) in 2019 the calculated risk weighted exposure amounts
shall be 50 % of the risk weight assigned to these
(i) the adequacy of the systems referred to in points (c) and (d) exposures in accordance with Article 114(2);
is approved and monitored at regular intervals by the
relevant competent authorities.
(c) in 2020 and onwards the calculated risk weighted exposure
amounts shall be 100 % of the risk weight assigned to these
exposures in accordance with Article 114(2).
Where the institution, in accordance with this paragraph,
decides not to apply the requirements of paragraph 1, it may
assign a risk weight of 0 %.
7. When the competent authorities of a third country which
apply supervisory and regulatory arrangements at least
equivalent to those applied in the Union assign a risk weight
S e c t i o n 2 which is lower than that indicated in paragraphs 1 to 2 to
exposures to their central government and central bank
R i s k w e i g h t s
denominated and funded in the domestic currency, institutions
Article 114 may risk weight such exposures in the same manner.
Exposures to central governments or central banks
1. Exposures to central governments and central banks shall For the purposes of this paragraph, the Commission may adopt,
be assigned a 100 % risk weight, unless the treatments set out by way of implementing acts, and subject to the examination
in paragraphs 2 to 7 apply. procedure referred to in Article 464(2), a decision as to whether
a third country applies supervisory and regulatory arrangements
at least equivalent to those applied in the Union. In the absence
of such a decision, until 1 January 2015, institutions may
2. Exposures to central governments and central banks for continue to apply the treatment set out in this paragraph to
which a credit assessment by a nominated ECAI is available the exposures to the central government or central bank of the
shall be assigned a risk weight according to Table 1 which third country where the relevant competent authorities had
corresponds to the credit assessment of the ECAI in accordance approved the third country as eligible for that treatment
with Article 136. before 1 January 2014.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/77
Article 115 5. Exposures to regional governments or local authorities of
the Member States that are not referred to in paragraphs 2 to 4
Exposures to regional governments or local authorities
and are denominated and funded in the domestic currency of
1. Exposures to regional governments or local authorities that regional government and local authority shall be assigned a
shall be risk-weighted as exposures to institutions unless they risk weight of 20 %.
are treated as exposures to central governments under para­
graphs 2 or 4 or receive a risk weight as specified in
paragraph 5. The preferential treatment for short-term
Article 116
exposures specified in Article 119(2) and Article 120(2) shall
not be applied. Exposures to public sector entities
1. Exposures to public sector entities for which a credit
assessment by a nominated ECAI is not available shall be
assigned a risk weight according to the credit quality step to
2. Exposures to regional governments or local authorities
which exposures to the central government of the jurisdiction in
shall be treated as exposures to the central government in
which the public sector entity is incorporated are assigned in
whose jurisdiction they are established where there is no
accordance with the following Table 2:
difference in risk between such exposures because of the
specific revenue-raising powers of the former, and the
existence of specific institutional arrangements the effect of
which is to reduce their risk of default.
Table 2
Credit quality step
to which central
1 2 3 4 5 6
EBA shall maintain a publicly available database of all regional government is
assigned
governments and local authorities within the Union which
relevant competent authorities treat as exposures to their
Risk weight 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 150 %
central governments.
For exposures to public sector entities incorporated in countries
where the central government is unrated, the risk weight shall
3. Exposures to churches or religious communities
be 100 %.
constituted in the form of a legal person under public law
shall, in so far as they raise taxes in accordance with legislation
conferring on them the right to do so, be treated as exposures
to regional governments and local authorities. In this case,
2. Exposures to public sector entities for which a credit
paragraph 2 shall not apply and, for the purposes of
assessment by a nominated ECAI is available shall be treated
Article 150(1)(a), permission to apply the Standardised
in accordance with Article 120. The preferential treatment for
Approach shall not be excluded.
short-term exposures specified in Articles 119(2) and 120(2),
shall not be applied to those entities.
4. When competent authorities of a third country juris­
3. For exposures to public sector entities with an original
diction which applies supervisory and regulatory arrangements
maturity of three months or less, the risk weight shall be 20 %.
at least equivalent to those applied in the Union treat exposures
to regional governments or local authorities as exposures to
their central government and there is no difference in risk
between such exposures because of the specific revenue-
4. In exceptional circumstances, exposures to public-sector
raising powers of regional government or local authorities
entities may be treated as exposures to the central government,
and to specific institutional arrangements to reduce the risk of
regional government or local authority in whose jurisdiction
default, institutions may risk weight exposures to such regional
they are established where in the opinion of the competent
governments and local authorities in the same manner.
authorities of this jurisdiction there is no difference in risk
between such exposures because of the existence of an appro­
priate guarantee by the central government, regional
government or local authority.
For the purposes of this paragraph, the Commission may adopt,
by way of implementing acts, and subject to the examination
procedure referred to in Article 464(2), a decision as to whether
a third country applies supervisory and regulatory arrangements 5. When competent authorities of a third country juris­
at least equivalent to those applied in the Union. In the absence diction, which apply supervisory and regulatory arrangements
of such a decision, until 1 January 2015, institutions may at least equivalent to those applied in the Union, treat exposures
continue to apply the treatment set out in this paragraph to to public sector entities in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2,
the third country where the relevant competent authorities had institutions may risk weight exposures to such public sector
approved the third country as eligible for that treatment before entities in the same manner. Otherwise the institutions shall
1 January 2014. apply a risk weight of 100 %.
L 176/78 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
For the purposes of this paragraph, the Commission may adopt, (m) the International Finance Facility for Immunisation;
by way of implementing acts, and subject to the examination
procedure referred to in Article 464(2), a decision as to whether
a third country applies supervisory and regulatory arrangements
(n) the Islamic Development Bank.
at least equivalent to those applied in the Union. In the absence
of such a decision, until 1 January 2015, institutions may
continue to apply the treatment set out in this paragraph to
the third country where the relevant competent authorities had 3. A risk weight of 20 % shall be assigned to the portion of
approved the third country as eligible for that treatment before unpaid capital subscribed to the European Investment Fund.
1 January 2014.
Article 118
Article 117
Exposures to international organisations
Exposures to multilateral development banks
Exposures to the following international organisations shall be
1. Exposures to multilateral development banks that are not
assigned a 0 % risk weight:
referred to in paragraph 2 shall be treated in the same manner
as exposures to institutions. The preferential treatment for
short-term exposures as specified in Articles 119(2), 120(2)
and 121(3) shall not be applied. (a) the Union;
The Inter-American Investment Corporation, the Black Sea
(b) the International Monetary Fund;
Trade and Development Bank, the Central American Bank for
Economic Integration and the CAF-Development Bank of Latin
America shall be considered multilateral development banks.
(c) the Bank for International Settlements;
2. Exposures to the following multilateral development
banks shall be assigned a 0 % risk weight:
(d) the European Financial Stability Facility;
(a) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel­
opment; (e) the European Stability Mechanism;
(b) the International Finance Corporation;
(f) an international financial institution established by two or
more Member States, which has the purpose to mobilise
(c) the Inter-American Development Bank; funding and provide financial assistance to the benefit of
its members that are experiencing or threatened by severe
financing problems.
(d) the Asian Development Bank;
Article 119
(e) the African Development Bank;
Exposures to institutions
1. Exposures to institutions for which a credit assessment by
(f) the Council of Europe Development Bank;
a nominated ECAI is available shall be risk-weighted in
accordance with Article 120. Exposures to institutions for
(g) the Nordic Investment Bank; which a credit assessment by a nominated ECAI is not
available shall be risk-weighted in accordance with Article 121.
(h) the Caribbean Development Bank;
2. Exposures to institutions of a residual maturity of three
months or less denominated and funded in the national
(i) the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
currency of the borrower shall be assigned a risk weight that
is one category less favourable than the preferential risk weight,
as described in Article 114(4) to (7), assigned to exposures to
(j) the European Investment Bank;
the central government in which the institution is incorporated.
(k) the European Investment Fund;
3. No exposures with a residual maturity of three months or
less denominated and funded in the national currency of the
(l) the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency; borrower shall be assigned a risk weight less than 20 %.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/79
4. Exposure to an institution in the form of minimum treatment for short term exposures set out in paragraph 2
reserves required by the ECB or by the central bank of a shall be as follows:
Member State to be held by an institution may be risk-
weighted as exposures to the central bank of the Member
State in question provided:
(a) If there is no short-term exposure assessment, the general
preferential treatment for short-term exposures as specified
(a) the reserves are held in accordance with Regulation (EC) in paragraph 2 shall apply to all exposures to institutions of
No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of up to three months residual maturity;
12 September 2003 on the application of minimum
reserves ( 1) or in accordance with national requirements in
all material respects equivalent to that Regulation;
(b) If there is a short-term assessment and such an assessment
determines the application of a more favourable or identical
risk weight than the use of the general preferential
(b) in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the insti­
treatment for short-term exposures, as specified in
tution where the reserves are held, the reserves are fully
paragraph 2, then the short-term assessment shall be used
repaid to the institution in a timely manner and are not
for that specific exposure only. Other short-term exposures
made available to meet other liabilities of the institution.
shall follow the general preferential treatment for short-term
exposures, as specified in paragraph 2;
5. Exposures to financial institutions authorised and
supervised by the competent authorities and subject to
prudential requirements comparable to those applied to insti­ (c) If there is a short-term assessment and such an assessment
tutions in terms of robustness shall be treated as exposures to determines a less favourable risk weight than the use of the
institutions. general preferential treatment for short-term exposures, as
specified in paragraph 2, then the general preferential
treatment for short-term exposures shall not be used and
Article 120 all unrated short-term claims shall be assigned the same risk
weight as that applied by the specific short-term assessment.
Exposures to rated institutions
1. Exposures to institutions with a residual maturity of more
than three months for which a credit assessment by a
nominated ECAI is available shall be assigned a risk weight Article 121
according to Table 3 which corresponds to the credit
Exposures to unrated institutions
assessment of the ECAI in accordance with Article 136.
1. Exposures to institutions for which a credit assessment by
a nominated ECAI is not available shall be assigned a risk
weight according to the credit quality step to which exposures
Table 3
to the central government of the jurisdiction in which the
institution is incorporated are assigned in accordance with
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6
Table 5.
Risk weight 20 % 50 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 150 %
Table 5
2. Exposures to an institution of up to three months residual
Credit quality step
maturity for which a credit assessment by a nominated ECAI is
to which central
available shall be assigned a risk-weight according to Table 4 1 2 3 4 5 6
government is
which corresponds to the credit assessment of the ECAI in assigned
accordance with Article 136:
Risk weight of 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 150 %
exposure
Table 4
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6
2. For exposures to unrated institutions incorporated in
Risk weight 20 % 20 % 20 % 50 % 50 % 150 %
countries where the central government is unrated, the risk
weight shall be 100 %.
3. The interaction between the treatment of short term credit
assessment under Article 131 and the general preferential 3. For exposures to unrated institutions with an original
effective maturity of three months or less, the risk weight
( 1 ) OJ L 250, 2.10.2003, p. 10. shall be 20 %.
L 176/80 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3, for trade finance The present value of retail minimum lease payments is eligible
exposures referred to in point (b) of the second subparagraph for the retail exposure class.
of Article 162(3) to unrated institutions, the risk weight shall be
50 % and where the residual maturity of these trade finance
exposures to unrated institutions is three months or less, the
risk weight shall be 20 %. Article 124
Exposures secured by mortgages on immovable property
Article 122 1. An exposure or any part of an exposure fully secured by
mortgage on immovable property shall be assigned a risk
Exposures to corporates
weight of 100 %, where the conditions under Article 125 and
1. Exposures for which a credit assessment by a nominated Article 126 are not met, except for any part of the exposure
ECAI is available shall be assigned a risk weight according to which is assigned to another exposure class. The part of the
Table 6 which corresponds to the credit assessment of the ECAI exposure that exceeds the mortgage value of the property shall
in accordance with Article 136. be assigned the risk weight applicable to the unsecured
exposures of the counterparty involved.
Table 6
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6 The part of an exposure treated as fully secured by immovable
property shall not be higher than the pledged amount of the
Risk weight 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 150 % 150 % market value or in those Member States that have laid down
rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage lending
value in statutory or regulatory provisions, the mortgage
lending value of the property in question.
2. Exposures for which such a credit assessment is not
available shall be assigned a 100 % risk weight or the risk
weight of exposures to the central government of the juris­
diction in which the corporate is incorporated, whichever is 2. Based on the data collected under Article 101, and any
the higher. other relevant indicators, the competent authorities shall period­
ically, and at least annually, assess whether the risk-weight of
35 % for exposures secured by mortgages on residential
Article 123 property referred to in Article 125 and the risk weight of
50 % for exposures secured on commercial immovable
Retail exposures property referred to in Article 126 located in their territory
are appropriately based on:
Exposures that comply with the following criteria shall be
assigned a risk weight of 75 %:
(a) the exposure shall be either to an natural person or persons, (a) the loss experience of exposures secured by immovable
or to a small or medium-sized enterprise (SME); property;
(b) the exposure shall be one of a significant number of
exposures with similar characteristics such that the risks (b) forward-looking immovable property markets devel­
associated with such lending are substantially reduced; opments;
(c) the total amount owed to the institution and parent under­
takings and its subsidiaries, including any exposure in Competent authorities may set a higher risk weight or stricter
default, by the obligor client or group of connected criteria than those set out in Article 125(2) and Article 126(2),
clients, but excluding exposures fully and completely where appropriate, on the basis of financial stability consider­
secured on residential property collateral that have been ations.
assigned to the exposure class laid down in point (i) of
Article 112, shall not, to the knowledge of the institution,
exceed EUR 1 million. The institution shall take reasonable
steps to acquire this knowledge. For exposures secured by mortgages on residential property, the
competent authority shall set the risk weight at a percentage
from 35 % through 150 %,
Securities shall not be eligible for the retail exposure class.
Exposures that do not comply with the criteria referred to in For exposures secured on commercial immovable property, the
points (a) to (c) of the first subparagraph shall not be eligible for competent authority shall set the risk weight at a percentage
the retail exposures class. from 50 % through 150 %,
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/81
Within these ranges, the higher risk weight shall be set based on Article 125
loss experience and taking into account forward-looking
Exposures fully and completely secured by mortgages on
markets developments and financial stability considerations.
residential property
Where the assessment demonstrates that the risk weights set
out in Article 125(2) and Article 126(2) do not reflect the 1. Unless otherwise decided by the competent authorities in
actual risks related to one or more property segments of such accordance with Article 124(2), exposures fully and completely
exposures, fully secured by mortgages on residential property or secured by mortgages on residential property shall be treated as
on commercial immovable property located in one or more follows:
parts of its territory, the competent authorities shall set, for
those property segments of exposures, a higher risk weight
corresponding to the actual risks.
(a) exposures or any part of an exposure fully and completely
secured by mortgages on residential property which is or
shall be occupied or let by the owner, or the beneficial
owner in the case of personal investment companies, shall
The competent authorities shall consult EBA on the adjustments
be assigned a risk weight of 35 %;
to the risk weights and criteria applied, which will be calculated
in accordance with the criteria set out in this paragraph as
specified by the regulatory technical standards referred to in
paragraph 4 of this Article. EBA shall publish the risk weights (b) exposures to a tenant under a property leasing transaction
and criteria that the competent authorities set for exposures concerning residential property under which the institution
referred to in Articles 125, 126 and 199. is the lessor and the tenant has an option to purchase, shall
be assigned a risk weight of 35 % provided that the
exposure of the institution is fully and completely secured
by its ownership of the property.
3. When competent authorities set a higher risk weight or
stricter criteria, institutions shall have a 6-month transitional
period to apply the new risk weight.
2. Institutions shall consider an exposure or any part of an
exposure as fully and completely secured for the purposes of
paragraph 1 only if the following conditions are met:
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify:
(a) the value of the property shall not materially depend upon
the credit quality of the borrower. Institutions may exclude
situations where purely macro-economic factors affect both
the value of the property and the performance of the
(a) the rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage
borrower from their determination of the materiality of
lending value referred to in paragraph 1;
such dependence;
(b) the risk of the borrower shall not materially depend upon
(b) the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 that competent
the performance of the underlying property or project, but
authorities shall take into account when determining higher
on the underlying capacity of the borrower to repay the
risk-weights, in particular the term of "financial stability
debt from other sources, and as a consequence, the
considerations".
repayment of the facility shall not materially depend on
any cash flow generated by the underlying property
serving as collateral. For those other sources, institutions
shall determine maximum loan-to-income ratios as part of
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
their lending policy and obtain suitable evidence of the
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
relevant income when granting the loan.
(c) the requirements set out in Article 208 and the valuation
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
rules set out in Article 229(1) are met;
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(d) unless otherwise determined under Article 124(2), the part
of the loan to which the 35 % risk weight is assigned does
not exceed 80 % of the market value of the property in
5. The institutions of one Member State shall apply the risk- question or 80 % of the mortgage lending value of the
weights and criteria that have been determined by the property in question in those Member States that have
competent authorities of another Member State to exposures laid down rigorous criteria for the assessment of the
secured by mortgages on commercial and residential mortgage lending value in statutory or regulatory provi­
immovable property located in that Member State. sions.
L 176/82 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Institutions may derogate from point (b) of paragraph 2 the value of the property and the performance of the
for exposures fully and completely secured by mortgages on borrower from their determination of the materiality of
residential property which is situated within the territory of a such dependence;
Member State, where the competent authority of that Member
State has published evidence showing that a well-developed and
long-established residential property market is present in that
territory with loss rates which do not exceed the following
(b) the risk of the borrower shall not materially depend upon
limits:
the performance of the underlying property or project, but
on the underlying capacity of the borrower to repay the
debt from other sources, and as a consequence, the
repayment of the facility shall not materially depend on
(a) losses stemming from lending collateralised by residential
any cash flow generated by the underlying property
property up to 80 % of the market value or 80 % of the
serving as collateral;
mortgage lending value unless otherwise decided under
Article 124(2) do not exceed 0,3 % of the outstanding
loans collateralised by residential property in any given year;
(c) the requirements set out in Article 208 and the valuation
rules set out in Article 229(1) are met;
(b) overall losses stemming from lending collateralised by resi­
dential property do not exceed 0,5 % of the outstanding
loans collateralised by residential property in any given year.
(d) The 50 % risk weight unless otherwise provided under
Article 124(2) shall be assigned to the part of the loan
that does not exceed 50 % of the market value of the
4. If either of the limits referred to in paragraph 3 is not
property or 60 % of the mortgage lending value unless
satisfied in a given year, the eligibility to use paragraph 3 shall
otherwise provided under Article 124(2) of the property
cease and the condition contained in point (b) of paragraph 2
in question in those Member States that have laid down
shall apply until the conditions in paragraph 3 are satisfied in a
rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage
subsequent year.
lending value in statutory or regulatory provisions.
Article 126
3. Institutions may derogate from point (b) of paragraph 2
Exposures fully and completely secured by mortgages on
for exposures fully and completely secured by mortgages on
commercial immovable property
commercial property which is situated within the territory of
1. Unless otherwise decided by the competent authorities in a Member State, where the competent authority of that Member
accordance with Article 124(2), exposures fully and completely State has published evidence showing that a well-developed and
secured by mortgages on commercial immovable property shall long-established commercial immovable property market is
be treated as follows: present in that territory with loss rates which do not exceed
the following limits:
(a) exposures or any part of an exposure fully and completely
secured by mortgages on offices or other commercial
(a) losses stemming from lending collateralised by commercial
premises may be assigned a risk weight of 50 %;
immovable property up to 50 % of the market value or
60 % of the mortgage lending value, unless otherwise
determined under Article 124(2), do not exceed 0,3 % of
(b) exposures related to property leasing transactions the outstanding loans collateralised by commercial
concerning offices or other commercial premises under immovable property;
which the institution is the lessor and the tenant has an
option to purchase may be assigned a risk weight of 50 %
provided that the exposure of the institution is fully and
completely secured by its ownership of the property. (b) overall losses stemming from lending collateralised by
commercial immovable property do not exceed 0,5 % of
the outstanding loans collateralised by commercial
immovable property.
2. Institutions shall consider an exposure or any part of an
exposure as fully and completely secured for the purposes of
paragraph 1 only if the following conditions are met:
4. Where either of the limits referred to in paragraph 3 is
not satisfied in a given year, the eligibility to use paragraph 3
(a) the value of the property shall not materially depend upon shall cease and the condition contained in point (b) of
the credit quality of the borrower. Institutions may exclude paragraph 2 shall apply until the conditions in paragraph 3
situations where purely macro-economic factors affect both are satisfied in a subsequent year.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/83
Article 127 3. When assessing whether an exposure other than
exposures referred to in the paragraph 2 is associated with
Exposures in default
particularly high risks, institutions shall take into account the
1. The unsecured part of any item where the obligor has following risk characteristics:
defaulted in accordance with Article 178, or in the case of
retail exposures, the unsecured part of any credit facility
which has defaulted in accordance with Article 178 shall be (a) there is a high risk of loss as a result of a default of the
assigned a risk weight of: obligor;
(a) 150 %, where specific credit risk adjustments are less than (b) it is impossible to assess adequately whether the exposure
20 % of the unsecured part of the exposure value if these falls under point (a).
specific credit risk adjustments were not applied;
EBA shall issue guidelines specifying which types of exposures
(b) 100 %, where specific credit risk adjustments are no less are associated with particularly high risk and under which
than 20 % of the unsecured part of the exposure value if circumstances.
these specific credit risk adjustments were not applied.
Those guidelines shall be adopted in accordance with Article 16
2. For the purpose of determining the secured part of the
of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
past due item, eligible collateral and guarantees shall be those
eligible for credit risk mitigation purposes under Chapter 4.
Article 129
3. The exposure value remaining after specific credit risk Exposures in the form of covered bonds
adjustments of exposures fully and completely secured by
1. To be eligible for the preferential treatment set out in
mortgages on residential property in accordance with
paragraphs 4 and 5, bonds as referred to in Article 52(4) of
Article 125 shall be assigned a risk weight of 100 % if a
Directive 2009/65/EC (covered bonds) shall meet the
default has occurred in accordance with Article 178.
requirements set out in paragraph 7 and shall be collateralised
by any of the following eligible assets:
4. The exposure value remaining after specific credit risk
adjustments of exposures fully and completely secured by
mortgages on commercial immovable property in accordance (a) exposures to or guaranteed by central governments, ESCB
with Article 126 shall be assigned a risk weight of 100 % if a central banks, public sector entities, regional governments
default has occurred in accordance with Article 178. or local authorities in the Union;
Article 128 (b) exposures to or guaranteed by third country central govern­
ments, third-country central banks, multilateral development
Items associated with particular high risk banks, international organisations that qualify for the credit
quality step 1 as set out in this Chapter, and exposures to or
1. Institutions shall assign a 150 % risk weight to exposures,
guaranteed by third-country public sector entities, third-
including exposures in the form of shares or units in a CIU that
country regional governments or third-country local auth­
are associated with particularly high risks, where appropriate.
orities that are risk weighted as exposures to institutions or
central governments and central banks in accordance with
Article 115(1) or (2), or Article 116(1), (2) or (4)
2. Exposures with particularly high risks shall include any of
respectively and that qualify for the credit quality step 1
the following exposures:
as set out in this Chapter, and exposures within the
meaning of this point that qualify as a minimum for the
credit quality step 2 as set out in this Chapter, provided that
(a) investments in venture capital firms;
they do not exceed 20 % of the nominal amount of
outstanding covered bonds of the issuing institutions;
(b) investments in AIFs as defined in Article 4(1)(a) of Directive
2011/61/EU except where the mandate of the fund does
(c) exposures to institutions that qualify for the credit quality
not allow a leverage higher than that required under
step 1 as set out in this Chapter. The total exposure of this
Article 51(3) of Directive 2009/65/EC;
kind shall not exceed 15 % of the nominal amount of
outstanding covered bonds of the issuing institution.
Exposures to institutions in the Union with a maturity
(c) investments in private equity; not exceeding 100 days shall not be comprised by the
step 1 requirement but those institutions shall as a
minimum qualify for credit quality step 2 as set out in
(d) speculative immovable property financing. this Chapter;
L 176/84 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) loans secured by: (ii) senior units issued by French Fonds Communs de Titri­
sation or equivalent securitisation entities governed by
the laws of a Member State securitising commercial
immovable property exposures. In the event of such
(i) residential property up to the lesser of the principal senior units being used as collateral, the special public
amount of the liens that are combined with any prior supervision to protect bond holders as provided for in
liens and 80 % of the value of the pledged properties; or Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC shall ensure that
the assets underlying such units shall, at any time while
they are included in the cover pool be at least 90 %
composed of commercial mortgages that are combined
(ii) senior units issued by French Fonds Communs de Titri­ with any prior liens up to the lesser of the principal
sation or equivalent securitisation entities governed by amounts due under the units, the principal amounts of
the laws of a Member State securitising residential the liens, and 60 % of the value of the pledged prop­
property exposures. In the event of such senior units erties, that the units qualify for the credit quality step 1
being used as collateral, the special public supervision as set out in this Chapter and that such units do not
to protect bond holders as provided for in Article 52(4) exceed 10 % of the nominal amount of the outstanding
of Directive 2009/65/EC shall ensure that the assets issue.
underlying such units shall, at any time while they are
included in the cover pool be at least 90 % composed of
residential mortgages that are combined with any prior
liens up to the lesser of the principal amounts due
under the units, the principal amounts of the liens,
Loans secured by commercial immovable property are
and 80 % of the value of the pledged properties, that
eligible where the Loan to Value ratio of 60 % is exceeded
the units qualify for the credit quality step 1 as set out
up to a maximum level of 70 % if the value of the total
in this Chapter and that such units do not exceed 10 %
assets pledged as collateral for the covered bonds exceed the
of the nominal amount of the outstanding issue.
nominal amount outstanding on the covered bond by at
least 10 %, and the bondholders' claim meets the legal
certainty requirements set out in Chapter 4. The bond­
holders' claim shall take priority over all other claims on
(e) residential loans fully guaranteed by an eligible protection
the collateral;
provider referred to in Article 201 qualifying for the credit
quality step 2 or above as set out in this Chapter, where the
portion of each of the loans that is used to meet the
requirement set out in this paragraph for collateralisation
of the covered bond does not represent more than 80 % of
(g) loans secured by maritime liens on ships up to the
the value of the corresponding residential property located
difference between 60 % of the value of the pledged ship
in France, and where a loan-to-income ratio respects at
and the value of any prior maritime liens.
most 33 % when the loan has been granted. There shall
be no mortgage liens on the residential property when
the loan is granted, and for the loans granted from
1 January 2014 the borrower shall be contractually
committed not to grant such liens without the consent of
For the purposes of points (c), (d)(ii) and (f)(ii) of the first
the credit institution that granted the loan. The loan-to-
subparagraph, exposures caused by transmission and
income ratio represents the share of the gross income of
management of payments of the obligors of, or liquidation
the borrower that covers the reimbursement of the loan,
proceeds in respect of, loans secured by pledged properties of
including the interests. The protection provider shall be
the senior units or debt securities shall not be comprised in
either a financial institution authorised and supervised by
calculating the limits referred to in those points.
the competent authorities and subject to prudential
requirements comparable to those applied to institutions
in terms of robustness or an institution or an insurance
undertaking. It shall establish a mutual guarantee fund or
equivalent protection for insurance undertakings to absorb
The competent authorities may, after consulting EBA, partly
credit risk losses, whose calibration shall be periodically
waive the application of point (c) of the first subparagraph
reviewed by the competent authorities. Both the credit insti­
and allow credit quality step 2 for up to 10 % of the total
tution and the protection provider shall carry out a credi­
exposure of the nominal amount of outstanding covered
tworthiness assessment of the borrower;
bonds of the issuing institution, provided that significant
potential concentration problems in the Member States
concerned can be documented due to the application of the
(f) loans secured by: credit quality step 1 requirement referred to in that point.
(i) commercial immovable property up to the lesser of the
principal amount of the liens that are combined with 2. The situations referred to in points (a) to (f) of paragraph
any prior liens and 60 % of the value of the pledged 1 shall also include collateral that is exclusively restricted by
properties; or legislation to the protection of the bond-holders against losses.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/85
3. Institutions shall for immovable property collateralising Article 130
covered bonds meet the requirements set out in Article 208
Items representing securitisation positions
and the valuation rules set out in Article 229(1).
Risk weighted exposure amounts for securitisation positions
4. Covered bonds for which a credit assessment by a shall be determined in accordance with Chapter 5.
nominated ECAI is available shall be assigned a risk weight
according to Table 6a which corresponds to the credit
assessment of the ECAI in accordance with Article 136.
Article 131
Table 6a
Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term
credit assessment
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6
Exposures to institutions and exposures to corporates for which
Risk weight 10 % 20 % 20 % 50 % 50 % 100 % a short-term credit assessment by a nominated ECAI is available
shall be assigned a risk weight according to Table 7 which
corresponds to the credit assessment of the ECAI in accordance
5. Covered bonds for which a credit assessment by a
with Article 136.
nominated ECAI is not available shall be assigned a risk
weight on the basis of the risk weight assigned to senior
unsecured exposures to the institution which issues them. The
following correspondence between risk weights shall apply: Table 7
Credit Quality
(a) if the exposures to the institution are assigned a risk weight 1 2 3 4 5 6
Step
of 20 %, the covered bond shall be assigned a risk weight of
10 %;
Risk weight 20 % 50 % 100 % 150 % 150 % 150 %
(b) if the exposures to the institution are assigned a risk weight
of 50 %, the covered bond shall be assigned a risk weight of
20 %; Article 132
Exposures in the form of units or shares in CIUs
(c) if the exposures to the institution are assigned a risk weight
of 100 %, the covered bond shall be assigned a risk weight 1. Exposures in the form of units or shares in CIUs shall be
of 50 %; assigned a risk weight of 100 %, unless the institution applies
the credit risk assessment method under paragraph 2, or the
(d) if the exposures to the institution are assigned a risk weight look-through approach in paragraph 4 or the average risk
of 150 %, the covered bond shall be assigned a risk weight weight approach under paragraph 5 when the conditions in
of 100 %. paragraph 3 are met.
6. Covered bonds issued before 31 December 2007 are not
subject to the requirements of paragraphs 1 and 3. They are
2. Exposures in the form of units or shares in CIUs for
eligible for the preferential treatment under paragraphs 4 and 5
which a credit assessment by a nominated ECAI is available
until their maturity.
shall be assigned a risk weight according to Table 8 which
corresponds to the credit assessment of the ECAI in accordance
7. Exposures in the form of covered bonds are eligible for
with Article 136.
preferential treatment, provided that the institution investing in
the covered bonds can demonstrate to the competent auth­
orities that:
Table 8
(a) it receives portfolio information at least on:
Credit quality step 1 2 3 4 5 6
(i) the value of the cover pool and outstanding covered
bonds; Risk weight 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 150 % 150 %
(ii) the geographical distribution and type of cover assets,
loan size, interest rate and currency risks;
3. Institutions may determine the risk weight for a CIU in
accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5, if the following eligibility
(iii) the maturity structure of cover assets and covered
criteria are met:
bonds; and
(iv) the percentage of loans more than ninety days past due;
(a) the CIU is managed by a company that is subject to super­
(b) the issuer makes the information referred to in point (a) vision in a Member State or, in the case of third country
available to the institution at least semi annually. CIU, where the following conditions are met:
L 176/86 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(i) the CIU is managed by a company which is subject to Institutions may rely on the following third parties to calculate
supervision that is considered equivalent to that laid and report, in accordance with the methods set out in para­
down in Union law; graphs 4 and 5, a risk weight for the CIU:
(ii) cooperation between competent authorities is suffi­ (a) the depository institution or the depository financial insti­
ciently ensured; tution of the CIU provided that the CIU exclusively invests
in securities and deposits all securities at that depository
institution or the financial institution;
(b) the CIU's prospectus or equivalent document includes the
following:
(b) for CIUs not covered by point (a), the CIU management
company, provided that the CIU management company
meets the criteria set out in paragraph 3(a).
(i) the categories of assets in which the CIU is authorised to
invest;
The correctness of the calculation referred to in the first
subparagraph shall be confirmed by an external auditor.
(ii) if investment limits apply, the relative limits and the
methodologies to calculate them;
Article 133
(c) the business of the CIU is reported on at least an annual
Equity exposures
basis to enable an assessment to be made of the assets and
liabilities, income and operations over the reporting period. 1. The following exposures shall be considered equity
exposures:
For the purposes of point (a), the Commission may adopt, by
way of implementing acts, and subject to the examination (a) non-debt exposures conveying a subordinated, residual
procedure referred to in Article 464(2), a decision as to claim on the assets or income of the issuer;
whether a third country applies supervisory and regulatory
arrangements at least equivalent to those applied in the
Union. In the absence of such a decision, until 1 January
2015, institutions may continue to apply the treatment set
(b) debt exposures and other securities, partnerships, deriva­
out in this paragraph to exposures in the form of units or
tives, or other vehicles, the economic substance of which
shares of CIUs from third countries where the relevant
is similar to the exposures specified in point (a).
competent authorities had approved the third country as
eligible for that treatment before 1 January 2014.
2. Equity exposures shall be assigned a risk weight of 100 %,
unless they are required to be deducted in accordance with Part
4. Where the institution is aware of the underlying exposures
Two, assigned a 250 % risk weight in accordance with
of a CIU, it may look through to those underlying exposures in
Article 48(4), assigned a 1 250 % risk weight in accordance
order to calculate an average risk weight for its exposures in the
with Article 89(3) or treated as high risk items in accordance
form of units or shares in the CIUs in accordance with the
with Article 128.
methods set out in this Chapter. Where an underlying
exposure of the CIU is itself an exposure in the form of
shares in another CIU which fulfils the criteria of paragraph
3, the institution may look through to the underlying
3. Investments in equity or regulatory capital instruments
exposures of that other CIU.
issued by institutions shall be classified as equity claims,
unless deducted from own funds or attracting a 250 % risk
weight under Article 48(4) or treated as high risk items in
accordance with Article 128.
5. Where the institution is not aware of the underlying
exposures of a CIU, it may calculate an average risk weight
for its exposures in the form of a unit or share in the CIU in
accordance with the methods set out in this Chapter subject to
the assumption that the CIU first invests, to the maximum Article 134
extent allowed under its mandate, in the exposure classes
Other items
attracting the highest capital requirement, and then continues
making investments in descending order until the maximum 1. Tangible assets within the meaning of Article 4(10) of
total investment limit is reached. Directive 86/635/EEC shall be assigned a risk weight of 100 %.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/87
2. Prepayments and accrued income for which an institution S e c t i o n 3
is unable to determine the counterparty in accordance with
R e c o g n i t i o n a n d m a p p i n g o f c r e d i t r i s k
Directive 86/635/EEC, shall be assigned a risk weight of 100 %.
a s s e s s m e n t
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
R e c o g n i t i o n o f E C A I s
3. Cash items in the process of collection shall be assigned a
Article 135
20 % risk weight. Cash in hand and equivalent cash items shall
be assigned a 0 % risk weight. Use of credit assessments by ECAIs
1. An external credit assessment may be used to determine
the risk weight of an exposure under this Chapter only if it has
been issued by an ECAI or has been endorsed by an ECAI in
accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009.
4. Gold bullion held in own vaults or on an allocated basis
to the extent backed by bullion liabilities shall be assigned a 0 %
risk weight.
2. EBA shall publish the list of ECAIs in accordance with
Article 2(4) and Article 18(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009
on its website.
5. In the case of asset sale and repurchase agreements and
outright forward purchases, the risk weight shall be that
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
assigned to the assets in question and not to the counterparties
to the transactions. M a p p i n g o f E C A I ' s c r e d i t a s s e s s m e n t s
Article 136
Mapping of ECAI's credit assessments
6. Where an institution provides credit protection for a 1. EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall, through the Joint
number of exposures under terms that the nth default among Committee, develop draft implementing technical standards to
the exposures shall trigger payment and that this credit event specify for all ECAIs, with which of the credit quality steps set
shall terminate the contract, and where the product has an out in Section 2 the relevant credit assessments of the ECAI
external credit assessment from an ECAI, the risk weights correspond ('mapping'). Those determinations shall be objective
prescribed in Chapter 5 shall be assigned. If the product is and consistent.
not rated by an ECAI, the risk weights of the exposures
included in the basket will be aggregated, excluding n-1
exposures, up to a maximum of 1 250 % and multiplied by
EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall submit those draft implementing
the nominal amount of the protection provided by the credit
technical standards to the Commission by 1 July 2014 and shall
derivative to obtain the risk weighted asset amount. The n-1
submit revised draft implementing technical standards where
exposures to be excluded from the aggregation shall be
necessary.
determined on the basis that they shall include those
exposures each of which produces a lower risk-weighted
exposure amount than the risk-weighted exposure amount of
any of the exposures included in the aggregation. Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010, of Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 and of Regu­
lation (EU) No 1095/2010 respectively.
7. The exposure value for leases shall be the discounted
minimum lease payments. Minimum lease payments are the
payments over the lease term that the lessee is or can be
2. When determining the mapping of credit assessments,
required to make and any bargain option the exercise of
EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall comply with the following require­
which is reasonably certain. A party other than the lessee
ments:
may be required to make a payment related to the residual
value of a leased property and that payment obligation fulfils
the set of conditions in Article 201 regarding the eligibility of
protection providers as well as the requirements for recognising (a) in order to differentiate between the relative degrees of risk
other types of guarantees provided in Articles 213 to 215, that expressed by each credit assessment, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA
payment obligation may be taken into account as unfunded shall consider quantitative factors such as the long-term
credit protection under Chapter 4. These exposures shall be default rate associated with all items assigned the same
assigned to the relevant exposure class in accordance with credit assessment. For recently established ECAIs and for
Article 112. When the exposure is a residual value of leased those that have compiled only a short record of default
assets, the risk weighted exposure amounts shall be calculated as data, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall ask the ECAI what it
follows: 1/t * 100 % * residual value, where t is the greater of 1 believes to be the long-term default rate associated with
and the nearest number of whole years of the lease remaining. all items assigned the same credit assessment;
L 176/88 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) in order to differentiate between the relative degrees of risk agreed methodology, and the credit assessment is associated
expressed by each credit assessment, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA with one of the eight minimum export insurance premiums
shall consider qualitative factors such as the pool of issuers that the OECD agreed methodology establishes. An insti­
that the ECAI covers, the range of credit assessments that tution may revoke its nomination of an Export Credit
the ECAI assigns, each credit assessment meaning and the Agency. An institution shall substantiate the revocation if
ECAI's definition of default; there are concrete indications that the intention underlying
the revocation is to reduce the capital adequacy require­
ments.
(c) EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall compare default rates
experienced for each credit assessment of a particular
ECAI and compare them with a benchmark built on the
basis of default rates experienced by other ECAIs on a popu­
lation of issuers that present an equivalent level of credit 2. Exposures for which a credit assessment by an Export
risk; Credit Agency is recognised for risk weighting purposes shall
be assigned a risk weight according to Table 9.
(d) where the default rates experienced for the credit assessment
of a particular ECAI are materially and systematically higher
then the benchmark, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall assign a
higher credit quality step in the credit quality assessment Table 9
scale to the ECAI credit assessment;
MEIP 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(e) where EBA, EIOPA and ESMA have increased the associated Risk 0 % 0 % 20 % 50 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 150 %
risk weight for a specific credit assessment of a particular weight
ECAI, and where default rates experienced for that ECAI's
credit assessment are no longer materially and systematically
higher than the benchmark, EBA, EIOPA and ESMA may
restore the original credit quality step in the credit quality
assessment scale for the ECAI credit assessment. S e c t i o n 4
U s e o f t h e e c a i c r e d i t a s s e s s m e n t s f o r t h e
3. EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall develop draft implementing d e t e r m i n a t i o n o f r i s k w e i g h t s
technical standards to specify the quantitative factors referred to
Article 138
in point (a), the qualitative factors referred to in point (b) and
the benchmark referred to in point (c) of paragraph 2. General requirements
An institution may nominate one or more ECAIs to be used for
EBA, EIOPA and ESMA shall submit those draft implementing the determination of risk weights to be assigned to assets and
technical standards to the Commission by 1 July 2014. off-balance sheet items. An institution may revoke its nomi­
nation of an ECAI. An institution shall substantiate the revo­
cation if there are concrete indications that the intention
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ underlying the revocation is to reduce the capital adequacy
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph requirements. Credit assessments shall not be used selectively.
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) An institution shall use solicited credit assessments. However it
No 1093/2010, of Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 and of Regu­ may use unsolicited credit assessments if EBA has confirmed
lation (EU) No 1095/2010 respectively. that unsolicited credit assessments of an ECAI do not differ in
quality from solicited credit assessments of this ECAI. EBA shall
refuse or revoke this confirmation in particular if the ECAI has
S u b - S e c t i o n 3 used an unsolicited credit assessment to put pressure on the
rated entity to place an order for a credit assessment or other
U s e o f c r e d i t a s s e s s m e n t s b y E x p o r t C r e d i t
A g e n c i e s
services. In using credit assessment, institutions shall comply
with the following requirements:
Article 137
Use of credit assessments by Export Credit Agencies
1. For the purpose of Article 114, institutions may use credit
assessments of an Export Credit Agency that the institution has (a) an institution which decides to use the credit assessments
nominated, if either of the following conditions is met: produced by an ECAI for a certain class of items shall use
those credit assessments consistently for all exposures
belonging to that class;
(a) it is a consensus risk score from Export Credit Agencies
participating in the OECD 'Arrangement on Guidelines for
Officially Supported Export Credits';
(b) an institution which decides to use the credit assessments
(b) the Export Credit Agency publishes its credit assessments, produced by an ECAI shall use them in a continuous and
and the Export Credit Agency subscribes to the OECD consistent way over time;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/89
(c) an institution shall only use ECAIs credit assessments that Article 140
take into account all amounts both in principal and in
Long-term and short-term credit assessments
interest owed to it;
1. Short-term credit assessments may only be used for short-
term asset and off-balance sheet items constituting exposures to
(d) where only one credit assessment is available from a institutions and corporates.
nominated ECAI for a rated item, that credit assessment
shall be used to determine the risk weight for that item;
2. Any short-term credit assessment shall only apply to the
item the short-term credit assessment refers to, and it shall not
(e) where two credit assessments are available from nominated be used to derive risk weights for any other item, except in the
ECAIs and the two correspond to different risk weights for a following cases:
rated item, the higher risk weight shall be assigned;
(a) if a short-term rated facility is assigned a 150 % risk weight,
(f) where more than two credit assessments are available from
then all unrated unsecured exposures on that obligor
nominated ECAIs for a rated item, the two assessments
whether short-term or long-term shall also be assigned a
generating the two lowest risk weights shall be referred
150 % risk weight;
to. If the two lowest risk weights are different, the higher
risk weight shall be assigned. If the two lowest risk weights
are the same, that risk weight shall be assigned.
(b) if a short-term rated facility is assigned a 50 % risk-weight,
no unrated short-term exposure shall be assigned a risk
Article 139 weight lower than 100 %.
Issuer and issue credit assessment
1. Where a credit assessment exists for a specific issuing Article 141
programme or facility to which the item constituting the
exposure belongs, this credit assessment shall be used to Domestic and foreign currency items
determine the risk weight to be assigned to that item.
A credit assessment that refers to an item denominated in the
obligor's domestic currency cannot be used to derive a risk
weight for another exposure on that same obligor that is
2. Where no directly applicable credit assessment exists for a denominated in a foreign currency.
certain item, but a credit assessment exists for a specific issuing
programme or facility to which the item constituting the
exposure does not belong or a general credit assessment
exists for the issuer, then that credit assessment shall be used When an exposure arises through an institution's participation
in either of the following cases: in a loan that has been extended by a multilateral development
bank whose preferred creditor status is recognised in the
market, the credit assessment on the obligors' domestic
currency item may be used for risk weighting purposes.
(a) it produces a higher risk weight than would other wise be
the case and the exposure in question ranks pari passu or
junior in all respects to the specific issuing program or
facility or to senior unsecured exposures of that issuer, as CHAPTER 3
relevant;
Internal Ratings Based Approach
S e c t i o n 1
(b) it produces a lower risk weight and the exposure in
P e r m i s s i o n b y c o m p e t e n t a u t h o r i t i e s t o
question ranks pari passu or senior in all respects to the
u s e t h e i r b a p p r o a c h
specific issuing programme or facility or to senior unsecured
exposures of that issuer, as relevant. Article 142
Definitions
In all other cases, the exposure shall be treated as unrated. 1. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions
shall apply:
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are not to prevent the application of
Article 129.
(1) 'rating system' means all of the methods, processes,
controls, data collection and IT systems that support the
assessment of credit risk, the assignment of exposures to
4. Credit assessments for issuers within a corporate group rating grades or pools, and the quantification of default and
cannot be used as credit assessment of another issuer within loss estimates that have been developed for a certain type of
the same corporate group. exposures;
L 176/90 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(2) 'type of exposures' means a group of homogeneously until 1 January 2015, institutions may continue to apply the
managed exposures which are formed by a certain type of treatment set out in this paragraph to a third country where the
facilities and which may be limited to a single entity or a relevant competent authorities had approved the third country
single sub-set of entities within a group provided that the as eligible for this treatment before 1 January 2014.
same type of exposures is managed differently in other
entities of the group;
Article 143
Permission to use the IRB Approach
(3) 'business unit' means any separate organisational or legal
entities, business lines, geographical locations; 1. Where the conditions set out in this Chapter are met, the
competent authority shall permit institutions to calculate their
risk-weighted exposure amounts using the Internal Ratings
Based Approach (hereinafter referred to as 'IRB Approach').
(4) 'large financial sector entity' means any financial sector
entity, other than those referred to in point (27)(j) of
Article 4(1), which meets the following conditions:
2. Prior permission to the use the IRB Approach, including
own estimates of LGD and conversion factors, shall be required
for each exposure class and for each rating system and internal
(a) its total assets, calculated on an individual or
model approaches to equity exposures and for each approach to
consolidated basis, are greater than or equal to a
estimating LGDs and conversion factors used.
EUR 70 billion threshold, using the most recent
audited financial statement or consolidated financial
statement in order to determine asset size; and
3. Institutions shall obtain the prior permission of the
competent authorities for the following:
(b) it is, or one of its subsidiaries is, subject to prudential
regulation in the Union or to the laws of a third
(a) material changes to the range of application of a rating
country which applies prudential supervisory and regu­
system or an internal models approach to equity
latory requirements at least equivalent to those applied
exposures that the institution has received permission to
in the Union;
use;
(5) 'unregulated financial entity' means any other entity that is
(b) material changes to a rating system or an internal models
not a regulated financial sector entity but performs, as its
approach to equity exposures that the institution has
main business, one or more of the activities listed in Annex
received permission to use.
I to Directive 2013/36/EU or listed in Annex I to Directive
2004/39/EC;
The range of application of a rating system shall comprise all
exposures of the relevant type of exposure for which that rating
(6) 'obligor grade' means a risk category within the obligor system was developed.
rating scale of a rating system, to which obligors are
assigned on the basis of a specified and distinct set of
rating criteria, from which estimates of probability of
4. Institutions shall notify the competent authorities of all
default (PD) are derived;
changes to rating systems and internal models approaches to
equity exposures.
(7) 'facility grade' means a risk category within a rating system's
facility scale, to which exposures are assigned on the basis
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
of a specified and distinct set of rating criteria from which
specify the conditions for assessing the materiality of the use of
own estimates of LGD are derived;
an existing rating system for other additional exposures not
already covered by that rating system and changes to rating
systems or internal models approaches to equity exposures
(8) 'servicer' means an entity that manages a pool of purchased under the IRB Approach.
receivables or the underlying credit exposures on a day-to-
day basis.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2013.
2. For the purposes of point (4)(b) of paragraph 1 of this
Article, the Commission may adopt, by way of implementing
acts, and subject to the examination procedure referred to in Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
Article 464(2), a decision as to whether a third country applies technical standards referred to the first subparagraph in
supervisory and regulatory arrangements at least equivalent to accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
those applied in the Union. In the absence of such a decision, No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/91
Article 144 (h) the institution has assigned and continues with assigning
each exposure in the range of application of a rating
Competent authorities' assessment of an application to use
system to a rating grade or pool of this rating system; the
an IRB Approach
institution has assigned and continues with assigning each
1. The competent authority shall grant permission pursuant exposure in the range of application of an approach for
to Article 143 for an institution to use the IRB Approach, equity exposures to this internal models approach.
including to use own estimates of LGD and conversion
factors, only if the competent authority is satisfied that
requirements laid down in this Chapter are met, in particular
those laid down in Section 6, and that the systems of the The requirements to use an IRB Approach, including own
institution for the management and rating of credit risk estimates of LGD and conversion factors, apply also where an
exposures are sound and implemented with integrity and, in institution has implemented a rating system, or model used
particular, that the institution has demonstrated to the satis­ within a rating system, that it has purchased from a third-
faction of the competent authority that the following party vendor.
standards are met:
(a) the institution's rating systems provide for a meaningful 2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
assessment of obligor and transaction characteristics, a specify the assessment methodology competent authorities shall
meaningful differentiation of risk and accurate and follow in assessing the compliance of an institution with the
consistent quantitative estimates of risk; requirements to use the IRB Approach.
(b) internal ratings and default and loss estimates used in the
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
calculation of own funds requirements and associated
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
systems and processes play an essential role in the risk
management and decision-making process, and in the
credit approval, internal capital allocation and corporate
governance functions of the institution;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
(c) the institution has a credit risk control unit responsible for No 1093/2010.
its rating systems that is appropriately independent and free
from undue influence;
Article 145
(d) the institution collects and stores all relevant data to provide
Prior experience of using IRB approaches
effective support to its credit risk measurement and
management process; 1. An institution applying to use the IRB Approach shall
have been using for the IRB exposure classes in question
rating systems that were broadly in line with the requirements
set out in Section 6 for internal risk measurement and
(e) the institution documents its rating systems and the
management purposes for at least three years prior to its qualifi­
rationale for their design and validates its rating systems;
cation to use the IRB Approach.
(f) the institution has validated each rating system and each
internal models approach for equity exposures during an
2. An institution applying for the use of own estimates of
appropriate time period prior to the permission to use
LGDs and conversion factors shall demonstrate to the satis­
this rating system or internal models approach to equity
faction of the competent authorities that it has been estimating
exposures, has assessed during this time period whether
and employing own estimates of LGDs and conversion factors
the rating system or internal models approaches for equity
in a manner that was broadly consistent with the requirements
exposures are suited to the range of application of the rating
for use of own estimates of those parameters set out in Section
system or internal models approach for equity exposures,
6 for at least three years prior to qualification to use own
and has made necessary changes to these rating systems or
estimates of LGDs and conversion factors.
internal models approaches for equity exposures following
from its assessment;
3. Where the institution extends the use of the IRB
(g) the institution has calculated under the IRB Approach the Approach subsequent to its initial permission, the experience
own funds requirements resulting from its risk parameters of the institution shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements
estimates and is able to submit the reporting as required by of paragraphs 1 and 2 in respect of the additional exposures
Article 99; covered. If the use of rating systems is extended to exposures
L 176/92 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
that are significantly different to the scope of the existing (b) exposures to multilateral development banks referred to in
coverage, such that the existing experience cannot be reasonably Article 117(2);
assumed to be sufficient to meet the requirements of these
provisions in respect of the additional exposures, then the
requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply separately for (c) exposures to International Organisations which attract a risk
the additional exposures. weight of 0 % under Article 118.
Article 146 4. The following exposures shall be assigned to the class laid
down in point (b) of paragraph 2:
Measures to be taken where the requirements of this
Chapter cease to be met
Where an institution ceases to comply with the requirements (a) exposures to regional governments and local authorities
laid down in this Chapter, it shall notify the competent which are not treated as exposures to central governments
authority and do one of the following: in accordance with Article 115(2) and (4);
(a) present to the satisfaction of the competent authority a plan (b) exposures to Public Sector Entities which are not treated as
for a timely return to compliance and realise this plan exposures to central governments in accordance with
within a period agreed with the competent authority; Article 116(4);
(b) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent authorities (c) exposures to multilateral development banks which are not
that the effect of non-compliance is immaterial. assigned a 0 % risk weight under Article 117; and
Article 147 (d) exposures to financial institutions which are treated as
exposures to institutions in accordance with Article 119(5).
Methodology to assign exposure to exposures classes
1. The methodology used by the institution for assigning
exposures to different exposure classes shall be appropriate 5. To be eligible for the retail exposure class laid down in
and consistent over time. point (d) of paragraph 2, exposures shall meet the following
criteria:
2. Each exposure shall be assigned to one of the following
exposure classes: (a) they shall be to one of the following:
(a) exposures to central governments and central banks; (i) exposures to one or more natural persons;
(b) exposures to on institutions; (ii) exposures to an SME, provided in that case that the total
amount owed to the institution and parent undertakings
and its subsidiaries, including any past due exposure, by
(c) exposures to corporates; the obligor client or group of connected clients, but
excluding exposures secured on residential property
collateral, shall not, to the knowledge of the institution,
(d) retail exposures; which shall have taken reasonable steps to confirm the
situation, exceed EUR 1 million;
(e) equity exposures;
(b) they are treated by the institution in its risk management
consistently over time and in a similar manner;
(f) items representing securitisation positions;
(c) they are not managed just as individually as exposures in
(g) other non credit-obligation assets. the corporate exposure class;
3. The following exposures shall be assigned to the class laid (d) they each represent one of a significant number of similarly
down in point (a) of paragraph 2: managed exposures.
(a) exposures to regional governments, local authorities or In addition to the exposures listed in the first subparagraph, the
public sector entities which are treated as exposures to present value of retail minimum lease payments shall be
central governments under Articles 115 and 116; included in the retail exposure class.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/93
6. The following exposures shall be assigned to the equity unless they have received the permission of the competent auth­
exposure class laid down in point (e) of paragraph 2: orities to permanently use the Standardised Approach in
accordance with Article 150.
(a) non-debt exposures conveying a subordinated, residual
claim on the assets or income of the issuer;
Subject to the prior permission of the competent authorities,
implementation may be carried out sequentially across the
different exposure classes, referred to in Article 147, within
(b) debt exposures and other securities, partnerships, deriva­ the same business unit, across different business units in the
tives, or other vehicles, the economic substance of which same group or for the use of own estimates of LGDs or
is similar to the exposures specified in point (a). conversion factors for the calculation of risk weights for
exposures to corporates, institutions, and central governments
and central banks.
7. Any credit obligation not assigned to the exposure classes
laid down in points (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 2 shall
be assigned to the corporate exposure class referred to in point
(c) of that paragraph. In the case of the retail exposure class referred to in
Article 147(5), implementation may be carried out sequentially
across the categories of exposures to which the different
correlations in Article 154 correspond.
8. Within the corporate exposure class laid down in point (c)
of paragraph 2, institutions shall separately identify as
specialised lending exposures, exposures which possess the
following characteristics:
2. Competent authorities shall determine the time period
over which an institution and any parent undertaking and its
subsidiaries shall be required to implement the IRB Approach
(a) the exposure is to an entity which was created specifically to for all exposures. This time period shall be one that competent
finance or operate physical assets or is an economically authorities consider to be appropriate on the basis of the nature
comparable exposure; and scale of the activities of the institutions, or any parent
undertaking and its subsidiaries, and the number and nature
of rating systems to be implemented.
(b) the contractual arrangements give the lender a substantial
degree of control over the assets and the income that they
generate;
3. Institutions shall carry out implementation of the IRB
Approach according to conditions determined by the
competent authorities. The competent authority shall design
(c) the primary source of repayment of the obligation is the
those conditions such that they ensure that the flexibility
income generated by the assets being financed, rather than
under paragraph 1 is not used selectively for the purposes of
the independent capacity of a broader commercial enter­
achieving reduced own funds requirements in respect of those
prise.
exposure classes or business units that are yet to be included in
the IRB Approach or in the use of own estimates of LGDs and
conversion factors.
9. The residual value of leased properties shall be assigned to
the exposure class laid down in point (g) of paragraph 2, except
to the extent that residual value is already included in the lease
exposure laid down in Article 166(4). 4. Institutions that have begun to use the IRB Approach only
after 1 January 2013 or have until that date been required by
the competent authorities to be able to calculate their capital
requirements using the Standardised Approach shall retain their
10. The exposure from providing protection under an nth-
ability to calculate capital requirements using the Standardised
to-default basket credit derivative shall be assigned to the same
Approach for all their exposures during the implementation
class laid down in paragraph 2 to which the exposures in the
period until the competent authorities notify them that they
basket would be assigned, except if the individual exposures in
are satisfied that the implementation of the IRB Approach
the basket would be assigned to various exposure classes in
will be completed with reasonable certainty.
which case the exposure shall be assigned to the corporates
exposure class laid down in point (c) of paragraph 2.
5. An institution that is permitted to use the IRB Approach
Article 148 for any exposure class shall use the IRB Approach for the equity
exposure class laid down in point (e) of Article 147(2), except
Conditions for implementing the IRB Approach across
where that institution is permitted to apply the Standardised
different classes of exposure and business units
Approach for equity exposures pursuant to Article 150 and
1. Institutions and any parent undertaking and its for the other non credit-obligation assets exposure class laid
subsidiaries shall implement the IRB Approach for all exposures, down in point (g) of Article 147(2).
L 176/94 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to 3. The application of paragraphs 1 and 2 is subject to the
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities conditions for rolling out the IRB Approach determined by the
shall determine the appropriate nature and timing of the competent authorities in accordance with Article 148 and the
sequential roll out of the IRB Approach across exposure permission for permanent partial use referred to in Article 150.
classes referred to in paragraph 3.
Article 150
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2014. Conditions for permanent partial use
1. Where institutions have received the prior permission of
the competent authorities, institutions permitted to use the IRB
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Approach in the calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in and expected loss amounts for one or more exposure classes
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) may apply the Standardised Approach for the following
No 1093/2010. exposures:
Article 149 (a) the exposure class laid down in Article 147(2)(a), where the
number of material counterparties is limited and it would be
Conditions to revert to the use of less sophisticated
unduly burdensome for the institution to implement a
approaches
rating system for these counterparties;
1. An institution that uses the IRB Approach for a particular
exposure class or type of exposure shall not stop using that
approach and use instead the Standardised Approach for the
calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts unless the (b) the exposure class laid down in Article 147(2)(b), where the
following conditions are met: number of material counterparties is limited and it would be
unduly burdensome for the institution to implement a
rating system for these counterparties;
(a) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
competent authority that the use of the Standardised
Approach is not proposed in order to reduce the own (c) exposures in non-significant business units as well as
funds requirement of the institution, is necessary on the exposure classes or types of exposures that are immaterial
basis of nature and complexity of the institution's total in terms of size and perceived risk profile;
exposures of this type and would not have a material
adverse impact on the solvency of the institution or its
ability to manage risk effectively;
(d) exposures to central governments and central banks of the
Member States and their regional governments, local auth­
orities, administrative bodies and public sector entities
(b) the institution has received the prior permission of the provided:
competent authority.
(i) there is no difference in risk between the exposures to
2. Institutions which have obtained permission under
that central government and central bank and those
Article 151(9) to use own estimates of LGDs and conversion
other exposures because of specific public arrangements;
factors, shall not revert to the use of LGD values and conversion
and
factors referred to in Article 151(8) unless the following
conditions are met:
(ii) exposures to the central government and central bank
(a) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the are assigned a 0 % risk weight under Article 114(2), (4)
competent authority that the use of LGDs and conversion or (5);
factors laid down in Article 151(8) for a certain exposure
class or type of exposure is not proposed in order to reduce
the own funds requirement of the institution, is necessary
(e) exposures of an institution to a counterparty which is its
on the basis of nature and complexity of the institution's
parent undertaking, its subsidiary or a subsidiary of its
total exposures of this type and would not have a material
parent undertaking provided that the counterparty is an
adverse impact on the solvency of the institution or its
institution or a financial holding company, mixed financial
ability to manage risk effectively;
holding company, financial institution, asset management
company or ancillary services undertaking subject to appro­
priate prudential requirements or an undertaking linked by a
(b) the institution has received the prior permission of the relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive
competent authority. 83/349/EEC;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/95
(f) exposures between institutions which meet the requirements Those guidelines shall be adopted in accordance with Article 16
set out in Article 113(7); of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(g) equity exposures to entities whose credit obligations are
S e c t i o n 2
assigned a 0 % risk weight under Chapter 2 including
those publicly sponsored entities where a 0 % risk weight C a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e
can be applied; a m o u n t s
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
(h) equity exposures incurred under legislative programmes to
T r e a t m e n t b y t y p e o f e x p o s u r e c l a s s
promote specified sectors of the economy that provide
significant subsidies for the investment to the institution Article 151
and involve some form of government oversight and
Treatment by exposure class
restrictions on the equity investments where such
exposures may in aggregate be excluded from the IRB 1. The risk-weighted exposure amounts for credit risk for
Approach only up to a limit of 10 % of own funds; exposures belonging to one of the exposure classes referred to
in points (a) to (e) and (g) of 147(2) shall, unless deducted from
own funds, be calculated in accordance with Sub-section 2
(i) the exposures identified in Article 119(4) meeting the except where those exposures are deducted from Common
conditions specified therein; Equity Tier 1 Additional Tier 1 items or Tier 2 items.
(j) State and State-reinsured guarantees referred to in
2. The risk-weighted exposure amounts for dilution risk for
Article 215(2).
purchased receivables shall be calculated in accordance with
Article 157. Where an institution has full recourse to the
seller of purchased receivables for default risk and for dilution
The competent authorities shall permit the application of Stan­
risk, the provisions of this Article and Article 152 and
dardised Approach for equity exposures referred to in points (g)
Article 158(1) to (4) in relation to purchased receivables shall
and (h) of the first subparagraph which have been permitted for
not apply and the exposure shall be treated as a collateralised
that treatment in other Member States. EBA shall publish on its
exposure.
website and regularly update a list with the exposures referred
to in those points (to be treated according to the Standardised
Approach.
3. The calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts for
credit risk and dilution risk shall be based on the relevant
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the equity exposure class parameters associated with the exposure in question. These
of an institution shall be material if their aggregate value, shall include PD, LGD, maturity (hereinafter referred to as 'M')
excluding equity exposures incurred under legislative and exposure value of the exposure. PD and LGD may be
programmes as referred to in point (g) of paragraph 1, considered separately or jointly, in accordance with Section 4.
exceeds on average over the preceding year 10 % of the own
funds of the institution. Where the number of those equity
exposures is less than 10 individual holdings, that threshold
shall be 5 % of the own funds of the institution. 4. Institutions shall calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts
for credit risk for all exposures belonging to the exposure class
'equity' referred to in point (e) of Article 147(2) in accordance
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to with Article 155. Institutions may use the approaches set out in
determine the conditions of application of points (a), (b) and (c) Article 155(3) and (4) where they have received the prior
of paragraph 1. permission of the competent authorities. Competent authorities
shall grant permission for an institution to use the internal
models approach set out in Article 155(4) provided the insti­
tution meets the requirements set out in Sub-section 4 of
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
Section 6.
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
5. The calculation of risk weighted exposure amounts for
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
credit risk for specialised lending exposures may be calculated
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
in accordance with Article 153(5).
No 1093/2010.
4. EBA shall issue guidelines on the application of point (d) 6. For exposures belonging to the exposure classes referred
of paragraph 1 in 2018, recommending limits in terms of a to in points (a) to (d) of Article 147(2), institutions shall provide
percentage of total balance sheet and/or risk weighted assets to their own estimates of PDs in accordance with Article 143 and
be calculated in accordance with the Standardised Approach. Section 6.
L 176/96 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
7. For exposures belonging to the exposure class referred to (i) for exposures subject to a specific risk weight for
in point (d) of Article 147(2), institutions shall provide own unrated exposures or subject to the credit quality step
estimates of LGDs and conversion factors in accordance with yielding the highest risk weight for a given exposure
Article 143 and Section 6. class, the risk weight shall be multiplied by a factor of
two but shall not be higher than 1 250 %;
8. For exposures belonging to the exposure classes referred
to in points (a) to (c) of Article 147(2), institutions shall apply (ii) for all other exposures, the risk weight shall be
the LGD values set out in Article 161(1), and the conversion multiplied by a factor of 1,1 and shall be subject to a
factors set out in Article 166(8)(a) to (d), unless it has been minimum of 5 %.
permitted to use its own estimates of LGDs and conversion
factors for those exposure classes in accordance with
paragraph 9.
Where, for the purposes of point (a), the institution is unable to
differentiate between private equity, exchange-traded and other
equity exposures, it shall treat the exposures concerned as other
9. For all exposures belonging to the exposure classes
equity exposures. Where those exposures, taken together with
referred to in points (a) to (c) of Article 1472), the
the institution's direct exposures in that exposure class, are not
competent authority shall permit institutions to use own
material within the meaning of Article 150(2), Article 150(1)
estimates of LGDs and conversion factors in accordance with
may be applied subject to the permission of the competent
Article 143 and Section 6.
authorities.
10. The risk-weighted exposure amounts for securitised
exposures and for exposures belonging to the exposure class 3. Where exposures in the form of units or shares in a CIU
referred to in point (f) of Article 147(2) shall be calculated in do not meet the criteria set out in Article 132(3), or the insti­
accordance with Chapter 5. tution is not aware of all of the underlying exposures of the CIU
or of its underlying exposures which is itself an exposure in the
form of units or shares in a CIU, the institution shall look
through to those underlying exposures and calculate risk-
Article 152
weighted exposure amounts and expected loss amounts in
accordance with the simple risk-weight approach set out in
Treatment of exposures in the form of units or shares in
Article 155(2).
CIUs
1. Where exposures in the form of units or shares in CIUs
meet the criteria set out in Article 132(3) and the institution is
aware of all or parts of the underlying exposures of the CIU, the Where the institution is unable to differentiate between private
institution shall look through to those underlying exposures in equity, exchange-traded and other equity exposures, it shall treat
order to calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected the exposures concerned as other equity exposures. It shall
loss amounts in accordance with the methods set out in this assign non equity exposures to the other equity class.
Chapter.
4. Alternatively to the method described in paragraph 3,
Where an underlying exposure of the CIU is itself another institutions may calculate themselves or may rely on the
exposure in the form of units or shares in another CIU, the following third parties to calculate and report the average risk
first institution shall also look through to the underlying weighted exposure amounts based on the CIU's underlying
exposures of the other CIU. exposures in accordance with the approaches referred to in
points (a) and (b) of paragraph 2 for the following:
2. Where the institution does not meet the conditions for
using the methods set out in this Chapter for all or parts of the
(a) the depository institution or financial institution of the CIU
underlying exposures of the CIU, risk weighted exposure
provided that the CIU exclusively invests in securities and
amounts and expected loss amounts shall be calculated in
deposits all securities at this depository institution or
accordance with the following approaches:
financial institution;
(a) for exposures belonging to the 'equity' exposure class
referred to in Article 147(2)(e), institutions shall apply the (b) for other CIUs, the CIU management company, provided
simple risk-weight approach set out in Article 155(2); that the CIU management company meets the criteria set
out in Article 132(3)(a).
(b) for all other underlying exposures referred to in paragraph
1, institutions shall apply the Standardised Approach laid The correctness of the calculation shall be confirmed by an
down in Chapter 2, subject to the following: external auditor.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/97
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to amounts for exposures to corporates, institutions and central
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities governments and central banks shall be calculated according
may permit institutions to use the Standardised Approach to the following formulae:
referred to in Article 150(1) under point (b) of paragraph 2
Risk – weighted exposure amount RW · exposure value
of this Article. ¼
where the risk weight RW is defined as
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 30 June 2014.
(i) if PD = 0, RW shall be 0;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) (ii) if PD = 1, i.e., for defaulted exposures:
No 1093/2010.
— where institutions apply the LGD values set out in
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
Article 161(1), RW shall be 0;
C a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e a m o u n t s
f o r c r e d i t r i s k
— where institutions use own estimates of LGDs, RW shall
Article 153 be RW max 0,12:5 · LGD – EL
B E
;
¼ f ð Þg
Risk weighted exposure amounts for exposures to
corporates, institutions and central governments and
where the expected loss best estimate (hereinafter referred
central banks
to as 'EL BE' ) shall be the institution's best estimate of
1. Subject to the application of the specific treatments laid expected loss for the defaulted exposure in accordance
down in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, the risk weighted exposure with Article 181(1)(h);
(iii) if 0 < PD < 1
1 R 1 M – 2,5 · b
RW LGD · N · G PD · G 0:999 – LGD · PD · þ ð Þ · 12,5 · 1,06
¼ 8 8 p1 – R ð Þ þ r1 ffiffiffi ffi– ffiffiffi ffiR ffiffiffi ð Þ 9 9 1 – 1,5 · b
>>: >>:
ffiffiffiffiffi ffiffiffiffiffiffi
>>; >>;
where:
N(x) = the cumulative distribution function for a standard normal random variable (i.e. the prob­
ability that a normal random variable with mean zero and variance of one is less than or equal
to x);
G(Z) = denotes the inverse cumulative distribution function for a standard normal random variable
(i.e. the value x such that N(x) = z)
R = denotes the coefficient of correlation, is defined as
1 – e– 50 · PD 1 – e– 50 · PD
R 0:12 · 0:24 · 1 –
¼ 1 – e– 50 þ
8
1 – e – 50
9
>>>: >>>;
b = the maturity adjustment factor, which is defined as
b 0:11852 – 0:05478 · ln PD 2 .
¼ ð ð ÞÞ
2. For all exposures to large financial sector entities, the co-efficient of correlation of paragraph 1(iii) is
multiplied by 1,25. For all exposures to unregulated financial entities, the coefficients of correlation set out
in paragraph 1(iii) and paragraph 4, as relevant, are multiplied by 1,25.
3. The risk weighted exposure amount for each exposure which meets the requirements set out in
Articles 202 and 217 may be adjusted according to the following formula:
L 176/98 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Risk – weighted exposure amount RW · exposure value · 0:15 160 · PD
pp
¼ ð þ Þ
where:
PD
pp
= PD of the protection provider.
RW shall be calculated using the relevant risk weight formula set out in point 1 for the exposure, the PD of
the obligor and the LGD of a comparable direct exposure to the protection provider. The maturity factor (b)
shall be calculated using the lower of the PD of the protection provider and the PD of the obligor.
4. For exposures to companies where the total annual sales for the consolidated group of which the firm
is a part is less than EUR 50 million, institutions may use the following correlation formula in paragraph 1
(iii) for the calculation of risk weights for corporate exposures. In this formula S is expressed as total annual
sales in millions of Euros with EUR 5 million ≤ S ≤ EUR 50 million. Reported sales of less than EUR 5
million shall be treated as if they were equivalent to EUR 5 million. For purchased receivables the total
annual sales shall be the weighted average by individual exposures of the pool.
1 – e– 50 · PD 1 – e – 50 · PD min max 5,S ,50 – 5
R 0:12 · 0:24 · 1 – – 0:04 · 1 – f f g g
¼ 1 – e– 50 þ
8
1 – e – 50
9 8
45
9
>>: >>; >>: >>;
Institutions shall substitute total assets of the consolidated 7. For purchased corporate r eceivables, refundable purchase
group for total annual sales when total annual sales are not a discounts, collateral or partial guarantees that provide first-loss
meaningful indicator of firm size and total assets are a more protection for default losses, dilution losses, or both, may be
meaningful indicator than total annual sales. treated as first-loss positions under the IRB securitisation
framework.
5. For specialised lending exposures in respect of which an
institution is not able to estimate PDs or the institutions' PD
estimates do not meet the requirements set out in Section 6, the 8. Where an institution provides credit protection for a
institution shall assign risk weights to these exposures according number of exposures under terms that the nth default among
to Table 1, as follows: the exposures shall trigger payment and that this credit event
shall terminate the contract, if the product has an external credit
assessment from an ECAI the risk weights set out in Chapter 5
Table 1 shall be applied. If the product is not rated by an ECAI, the risk
weights of the exposures included in the basket will be aggre­
Category Category Category Category Category gated, excluding n-1 exposures where the sum of the expected
Remaining Maturity
1 2 3 4 5 loss amount multiplied by 12,5 and the risk weighted exposure
amount shall not exceed the nominal amount of the protection
Less than 2,5 years 50 % 70 % 115 % 250 % 0 %
provided by the credit derivative multiplied by 12,5. The n-1
exposures to be excluded from the aggregation shall be
Equal or more than 2,5 70 % 90 % 115 % 250 % 0 %
determined on the basis that they shall include those
years
exposures each of which produces a lower risk-weighted
exposure amount than the risk-weighted exposure amount of
any of the exposures included in the aggregation. A 1 250 %
In assigning risk weights to specialised lending exposures insti­
risk weight shall apply to positions in a basket for which an
tutions shall take into account the following factors: financial
institution cannot determine the risk-weight under the IRB
strength, political and legal environment, transaction and/or
Approach.
asset characteristics, strength of the sponsor and developer,
including any public private partnership income stream, and
security package.
9. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify how institutions shall take into account the factors
6. For their purchased corporate receivables institutions shall
referred to the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 when
comply with the requirements set out in Article 184. For
assigning risk weights to specialised lending exposures.
purchased corporate receivables that comply in addition with
the conditions set out in Article 154(5), and where it would be
unduly burdensome for an institution to use the risk quantifi­
cation standards for corporate exposures as set out in Section 6
for these receivables, the risk quantification standards for retail EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
exposures as set out in Section 6 may be used. the Commission by 31 December 2014.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/99
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory (i) if PD = 1, i.e., for defaulted exposures, RW shall be
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
RW max 0,12:5 · LGD – EL
B E
;
¼ f ð Þg
Article 154
Risk weighted exposure amounts for retail exposures
where EL
B E
shall be the institution's best estimate of
expected loss for the defaulted exposure in accordance
1. The risk-weighted exposure amounts for retail exposures with Article 181(1)(h);
shall be calculated according to the following formulae:
Risk – weighted exposure amount RW · exposure value
¼ (ii) if 0 < PD < 1, i.e., for any possible value for PD other than
where the risk weight RW is defined as follows: under (i)
1 R
RW LGD · N · G PD · G 0:999 – LGD · PD · 12,5 · 1,06
¼ p1 – R ð Þ þ 1 – R ð Þ
8 8 rffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi 9 9
>>: >>:
ffiffiffiffiffi ffiffiffiffiffiffi
>>; >>;
where:
N(x) = the cumulative distribution function for a standard normal random variable (i.e. the probability
that a normal random variable with mean zero and variance of one is less than or equal to x);
G(Z) = the inverse cumulative distribution function for a standard normal random variable (i.e. the
value x such that N(x) = z);
R = the coefficient of correlation defined as
1 – e – 35 · PD 1 – e– 35 · PD
R 0:03 · 0:16 · 1 –
¼ 1 – e– 35 þ
8
1 – e– 35
9
>>>: >>>;
2. The risk weighted exposure amount for each exposure to their decisions to borrow and repay, up to a limit estab­
an SME as referred to in Article 147(5) which meets the lished by the institution. Undrawn commitments may be
requirements set out in Articles 202 and 217 may be calculated considered as unconditionally cancellable if the terms
in accordance with Article 153(3). permit the institution to cancel them to the full extent
allowable under consumer protection and related legislation;
3. For retail exposures secured by immovable property
collateral a coefficient of correlation R of 0,15 shall replace
(c) the maximum exposure to a single individual in the sub-
the figure produced by the correlation formula in paragraph 1.
portfolio is EUR 100 000 or less;
4. For qualifying revolving retail exposures in accordance
with points (a) to (e), a coefficient of correlation R of 0,04 (d) the use of the correlation of this paragraph is limited to
shall replace the figure produced by the correlation formula portfolios that have exhibited low volatility of loss rates,
in paragraph 1. relative to their average level of loss rates, especially
within the low PD bands;
Exposures shall qualify as qualifying revolving retail exposures if
they meet the following conditions: (e) the treatment as a qualifying revolving retail exposure shall
be consistent with the underlying risk characteristics of the
sub-portfolio.
(a) the exposures are to individuals;
(b) the exposures are revolving, unsecured, and to the extent By way of derogation from point (b), the requirement to be
they are not drawn immediately and unconditionally, unsecured does not apply in respect of collateralised credit
cancellable by the institution. In this context revolving facilities linked to a wage account. In this case amounts
exposures are defined as those where customers' recovered from the collateral shall not be taken into account
outstanding balances are permitted to fluctuate based on in the LGD estimate.
L 176/100 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Competent authorities shall review the relative volatility of loss Institutions may treat equity exposures to ancillary services
rates across the qualifying revolving retail sub-portfolios, as well undertakings according to the treatment of other non credit-
the aggregate qualifying revolving retail portfolio, and shall obligation assets.
share information on the typical characteristics of qualifying
revolving retail loss rates across Member States.
2. Under the Simple risk weight approach, the risk weighted
exposure amount shall be calculated according to the formula:
5. To be eligible for the retail treatment, purchased
receivables shall comply with the requirements set out in
Article 184 and the following conditions:
Risk – weighted exposure amount RW exposure value,
¼ ä
(a) the institution has purchased the receivables from unrelated,
third party sellers, and its exposure to the obligor of the where:
receivable does not include any exposures that are directly
or indirectly originated by the institution itself;
Risk weight (RW) = 190 % for private equity exposures in
sufficiently diversified portfolios.
(b) the purchased receivables shall be generated on an arm's-
length basis between the seller and the obligor. As such,
inter-company accounts receivables and receivables subject
to contra-accounts between firms that buy and sell to each Risk weight (RW) = 290 % for exchange traded equity
other are ineligible; exposures.
(c) the purchasing institution has a claim on all proceeds from
Risk weight (RW) = 370 % for all other equity exposures.
the purchased receivables or a pro-rata interest in the
proceeds; and
Short cash positions and derivative instruments held in the non-
trading book are permitted to offset long positions in the same
(d) the portfolio of purchased receivables is sufficiently diver­
individual stocks provided that these instruments have been
sified.
explicitly designated as hedges of specific equity exposures
and that they provide a hedge for at least another year. Other
short positions are to be treated as if they are long positions
6. For purchased receivables, refundable purchase discounts,
with the relevant risk weight assigned to the absolute value of
collateral or partial guarantees that provide first-loss protection
each position. In the context of maturity mismatched positions,
for default losses, dilution losses, or both, may be treated as
the method is that for corporate exposures as set out in
first-loss positions under the IRB securitisation framework.
Article 162(5).
7. For hybrid pools of purchased retail receivables where
purchasing institutions cannot separate exposures secured by Institutions may recognise unfunded credit protection obtained
immovable property collateral and qualifying revolving retail on an equity exposure in accordance with the methods set out
exposures from other retail exposures, the retail risk weight in Chapter 4.
function producing the highest capital requirements for those
exposures shall apply.
3. Under the PD/LGD approach, risk weighted exposure
amounts shall be calculated according to the formulas in
Article 155 Article 153(1). If institutions do not have sufficient information
to use the definition of default set out in Article 178, a scaling
Risk weighted exposure amounts for equity exposures
factor of 1,5 shall be assigned to the risk weights.
1. Institutions shall determine their risk-weighted exposure
amounts for equity exposures, excluding those deducted in
accordance with Part Two or subject to a 250 % risk weight
At the individual exposure level the sum of the expected loss
in accordance with Article 48, in accordance with the
amount multiplied by 12,5 and the risk weighted exposure
approaches set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article.
amount shall not exceed the exposure value multiplied by 12,5.
An institution may apply different approaches to different
equity portfolios where the institution itself uses different
approaches for internal risk management purposes. Where an
institution uses different approaches, the choice of the PD / Institutions may recognise unfunded credit protection obtained
LGD approach or the internal models approach shall be made on an equity exposure in accordance with the methods set out
consistently, including over time and with the approach used in Chapter 4. This shall be subject to an LGD of 90 % on the
for the internal risk management of the relevant equity exposure to the provider of the hedge. For private equity
exposure, and shall not be determined by regulatory arbitrage exposures in sufficiently diversified portfolios an LGD of 65 %
considerations. may be used. For these purposes M shall be five years.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/101
4. Under the internal models approach, the risk weighted S u b - S e c t i o n 3
exposure amount shall be the potential loss on the institution's
C a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e a m o u n t s
equity exposures as derived using internal value-at-risk models
f o r d i l u t i o n r i s k o f p u r c h a s e d r e c e i v a b l e s
subject to the 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval of
the difference between quarterly returns and an appropriate Article 157
risk-free rate computed over a long-term sample period,
multiplied by 12,5. The risk weighted exposure amounts at Risk weighted exposure amounts for dilution risk of
the equity portfolio level shall not be less than the total of purchased receivables
the sums of the following:
1. Institutions shall calculate the risk weighted exposure
amounts for dilution risk of purchased corporate and retail
receivables according to the formula set out in Article 153(1).
(a) the risk weighted exposure amounts required under the
PD/LGD Approach; and
2. Institutions shall determine the input parameters PD and
LGD in accordance with Section 4.
(b) the corresponding expected loss amounts multiplied
by 12,5.
3. Institutions shall determine the exposure value in
accordance with Section 5.
The amounts referred to in point (a) and (b) shall be calculated
on the basis of the PD values set out in Article 165(1) and the
corresponding LGD values set out in Article 165(2).
4. For the purposes of this Article, the value of M is 1 year.
Institutions may recognise unfunded credit protection obtained
on an equity position.
5. The competent authorities shall exempt an institution
from calculating and recognising risk weighted exposure
amounts for dilution risk of a type of exposures caused by
Article 156 purchased corporate or retail receivables where the institution
has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent authority
Risk weighted exposure amounts for other non credit-
that dilution risk for that institution is immaterial for this type
obligation assets
of exposures.
The risk weighted exposure amounts for other non credit-
obligation assets shall be calculated according to the following
formula:
S e c t i o n 3
E x p e c t e d l o s s a m o u n t s
Risk – weighted exposure amount 100 % · exposure value, Article 158
¼
Treatment by exposure type
except for: 1. The calculation of expected loss amounts shall be based
on the same input figures of PD, LGD and the exposure value
for each exposure as are used for the calculation of risk-
weighted exposure amounts in accordance with Article 151.
(a) cash in hand and equivalent cash items as well as gold
bullion held in own vault or on an allocated basis to the
extent backed by bullion liabilities, in which case a 0 % risk-
weight shall be assigned; 2. The expected loss amounts for securitised exposures shall
be calculated in accordance with Chapter 5.
(b) when the exposure is a residual value of leased assets in
which case it shall be calculated as follows:
3. The expected loss amount for exposures belonging to the
'other non credit obligations assets' exposure class referred to in
point (g) of Article 147(2) shall be zero.
1
· 100 % · exposure value
t
4. The expected loss amounts for exposures in the form of
shares or units of a CIU referred to in Article 152 shall be
where t is the greater of 1 and the nearest number of whole calculated in accordance with the methods set out in this
years of the lease remaining. Article.
L 176/102 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. The expected loss (EL) and expected loss amounts for 9. The expected loss amounts for equity exposures where the
exposures to corporates, institutions, central governments and risk weighted exposure amounts are calculated according to the
central banks and retail exposures shall be calculated according internal models approach shall be zero.
to the following formulae:
Expected loss ðEL Þ ¼ PD ä LGD 10. The expected loss amounts for dilution risk of purchased
receivables shall be calculated according to the following
formula:
Expected loss amount = EL [multiplied by] exposure value.
Expected loss EL PD · LGD
ð Þ ¼
For defaulted exposures (PD = 100 %) where institutions use Expected loss amount EL · exposure value
own estimates of LGDs, EL shall be EL BE, the institution's best ¼
estimate of expected loss for the defaulted exposure in
accordance with Article 181(1)(h).
Article 159
For exposures subject to the treatment set out in Article 153(3), Treatment of expected loss amounts
EL shall be 0 %.
Institutions shall subtract the expected loss amounts calculated
in accordance with Article 158 (5), (6) and (10) from the
6. The EL values for specialised lending exposures where general and specific credit risk adjustments and additional
institutions use the methods set out in Article 153(5) for value adjustments in accordance with Articles 34 and 110
assigning risk weights shall be assigned according to Table 2. and other own funds reductions related to these exposures.
Discounts on balance sheet exposures purchased when in
default in accordance with Article 166(1) shall be treated in
the same manner as specific credit risk adjustments. Specific
Table 2
credit risk adjustments on exposures in default shall not be
used to cover expected loss amounts on other exposures.
Category Category Category Category Category
Remaining Maturity
1 2 3 4 5 Expected loss amounts for securitised exposures and general
and specific credit risk adjustments related to these exposures
Less than 2,5 years 0 % 0,4 % 2,8 % 8 % 50 % shall not be included in this calculation.
Equal to or more than 0,4 % 0,8 % 2,8 % 8 % 50 %
2,5 years
S e c t i o n 4
P D , L G D a n d m a t u r i t y
7. The expected loss amounts for equity exposures where the
risk weighted exposure amounts are calculated according to S u b - S e c t i o n 1
simple risk weight approach shall be calculated according to
the following formula: E x p o s u r e s t o c o r p o r a t e s , i n s t i t u t i o n s a n d
c e n t r a l g o v e r n m e n t s a n d c e n t r a l b a n k s
Expected loss amount EL · exposure value
¼ Article 160
The EL values shall be the following:
Probability of default (PD)
1. The PD of an exposure to a corporate or an institution
Expected loss (EL) = 0,8 % for private equity exposures in suffi­ shall be at least 0,03 %.
ciently diversified portfolios
Expected loss (EL) = 0,8 % for exchange traded equity exposures 2. For purchased corporate receivables in respect of which an
institution is not able to estimate PDs or institution's PD
estimates do not meet the requirements set out in Section 6,
Expected loss (EL) = 2,4 % for all other equity exposures. the PDs for these exposures shall be determined according to
the following methods:
8. The expected loss and expected loss amounts for equity
exposures where the risk weighted exposure amounts are
(a) for senior claims on purchased corporate receivables PD
calculated according to the PD/LGD approach shall be calculated
shall be the institutions estimate of EL divided by LGD
according to the following formulae:
for these receivables;
Expected loss EL PD · LGD
ð Þ ¼
(b) for subordinated claims on purchased corporate receivables
Expected loss amount EL · exposure value PD shall be the institution's estimate of EL;
¼
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/103
(c) an institution that has received the permission of the An institution that has received the permission of the
competent authority to use own LGD estimates for competent authority pursuant to Article 143 to use own LGD
corporate exposures pursuant to Article 143 and that can estimates for dilution risk of purchased corporate receivables,
decompose its EL estimates for purchased corporate may recognise unfunded credit protection by adjusting PDs
receivables into PDs and LGDs in a manner that the subject to Article 161(3).
competent authority considers to be reliable, may use the
PD estimate that results from this decomposition.
Article 161
Loss Given Default (LGD)
3. The PD of obligors in default shall be 100 %.
1. Institutions shall use the following LGD values:
4. Institutions may take into account unfunded credit (a) senior exposures without eligible collateral: 45 %;
protection in the PD in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4. For dilution risk, in addition to the protection
providers referred to in Article 201(1)(g) the seller of the
(b) subordinated exposures without eligible collateral: 75 %;
purchased receivables is eligible if the following conditions are
met:
(c) institutions may recognise funded and unfunded credit
protection in the LGD in accordance with Chapter 4;
(a) the corporate entity has a credit assessment by an ECAI
which has been determined by EBA to be associated with
credit quality step 3 or above under the rules for the risk
(d) covered bonds eligible for the treatment set out in
weighting of exposures to corporates under Chapter 2;
Article 129(4) or (5) may be assigned an LGD value of
11,25 %;
(b) the corporate entity, in the case of institutions calculating
risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected loss amounts (e) for senior purchased corporate receivables exposures where
under the IRB Approach, does not have a credit assessment an institution is not able to estimate PDs or the institution's
by a recognised ECAI and is internally rated as having a PD PD estimates do not meet the requirements set out in
equivalent to that associated with the credit assessments of Section 6: 45 %;
ECAIs determined by EBA to be associated with credit
quality step 3 or above under the rules for the risk
weighting of exposures to corporates under Chapter 2.
(f) for subordinated purchased corporate receivables exposures
where an institution is not able to estimate PDs or the
institution's PD estimates do not meet the requirements
set out in Section 6: 100 %;
5. Institutions using own LGD estimates may recognise
unfunded credit protection by adjusting PDs subject to
Article 161(3).
(g) For dilution risk of purchased corporate receivables: 75 %.
6. For dilution risk of purchased corporate receivables, PD
2. For dilution and default risk if an institution has received
shall be set equal to the EL estimate of the institution for
permission from the competent authority to use own LGD
dilution risk. An institution that has received permission from
estimates for corporate exposures pursuant to Article 143 and
the competent authority pursuant to Article 143 to use own
it can decompose its EL estimates for purchased corporate
LGD estimates for corporate exposures that can decompose its
receivables into PDs and LGDs in a manner the competent
EL estimates for dilution risk of purchased corporate receivables
authority considers to be reliable, the LGD estimate for
into PDs and LGDs in a manner that the competent authority
purchased corporate receivables may be used.
considers to be reliable, may use the PD estimate that results
from this decomposition. Institutions may recognise unfunded
credit protection in the PD in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4. For dilution risk, in addition to the protection 3. If an institution has received the permission of the
providers referred to in Article 201(1)(g), the seller of the competent authority to use own LGD estimates for exposures
purchased receivables is eligible provided that the conditions to corporates, institutions, central governments and central
set out in paragraph 4 are met. banks pursuant to Article 143, unfunded credit protection
may be recognised by adjusting PD or LGD subject to
requirements as specified in Section 6 and permission of the
competent authorities. An institution shall not assign guar­
7. By way of derogation from Article 201(1)(g), the anteed exposures an adjusted PD or LGD such that the
corporate entities that meet the conditions set out in adjusted risk weight would be lower than that of a comparable,
paragraph 4 are eligible. direct exposure to the guarantor.
L 176/104 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. For the purposes of the undertakings referred to in (b) for derivatives subject to a master netting agreement, M
Article 153(3), the LGD of a comparable direct exposure to shall be the weighted average remaining maturity of the
the protection provider shall either be the LGD associated exposure, where M shall be at least 1 year, and the
with an unhedged facility to the guarantor or the unhedged notional amount of each exposure shall be used for
facility of the obligor, depending upon whether in the event weighting the maturity;
both the guarantor and obligor default during the life of the
hedged transaction, available evidence and the structure of the
guarantee indicate that the amount recovered would depend on (c) for exposures arising from fully or nearly-fully collateralised
the financial condition of the guarantor or obligor, respectively. derivative instruments listed in Annex II and fully or nearly-
fully collateralised margin lending transactions which are
subject to a master netting agreement, M shall be the
Article 162 weighted average remaining maturity of the transactions
where M shall be at least 10 days;
Maturity
1. Institutions that have not received permission to use own
LGDs and own conversion factors for exposures to corporates, (d) for repurchase transactions or securities or commodities
institutions or central governments and central banks shall lending or borrowing transactions which are subject to a
assign to exposures arising from repurchase transactions or master netting agreement, M shall be the weighted average
securities or commodities lending or borrowing transactions a remaining maturity of the transactions where M shall be at
maturity value (M) of 0,5 years and to all other exposures an M least five days. The notional amount of each transaction
of 2,5 years. shall be used for weighting the maturity;
Alternatively, as part of the permission referred to in
(e) an institution that has received the permission of the
Article 143, the competent authorities shall decide on
competent authority pursuant to Article 143 to use own
whether the institution shall use maturity (M) for each
PD estimates for purchased corporate receivables, for drawn
exposure as set out under paragraph 2.
amounts M shall equal the purchased receivables exposure
weighted average maturity, where M shall be at least 90
days. This same value of M shall also be used for
2. Institutions that have received the permission of the
undrawn amounts under a committed purchase facility
competent authority to use own LGDs and own conversion
provided the facility contains effective covenants, early
factors for exposures to corporates, institutions or central
amortisation triggers, or other features that protect the
governments and central banks pursuant to Article 143 shall
purchasing institution against a significant deterioration in
calculate M for each of these exposures as set out in points (a)
the quality of the future receivables it is required to
to (e) of this paragraph and subject to paragraphs 3 to 5 of this
purchase over the facility's term. Absent such effective
Article. M shall be no greater than five years except in the cases
protections, M for undrawn amounts shall be calculated as
specified in Article 384(1) where M as specified there shall be
the sum of the longest-dated potential receivable under the
used:
purchase agreement and the remaining maturity of the
purchase facility, where M shall be at least 90 days;
(a) for an instrument subject to a cash flow schedule, M shall
be calculated according to the following formula:
(f) for any other instrument than those mentioned in this
paragraph or when an institution is not in a position to
calculate M as set out in (a), M shall be the maximum
remaining time (in years) that the obligor is permitted to
t · CF
t
take to fully discharge its contractual obligations, where M
M max 1,min Xt ,5
shall be at least 1 year;
¼ ( ( CF t ) )
t
X (g) for institutions using the Internal Model Method set out in
Section 6 of Chapter 6 to calculate the exposure values, M
shall be calculated for exposures to which they apply this
where CF
t
denotes the cash flows (principal, interest method and for which the maturity of the longest-dated
payments and fees) contractually payable by the obligor in contract contained in the netting set is greater than one
period t; year according to the following formula:
M min Xk
EffectiveEE
t k
· Δt
k
· df
t k
· s
t k þ
Xk
EE
t k
· Δt
k
· df
t k
· ð1 – s
t k Þ
,5
¼ 8 EffectiveEE
t k
· Δt
k
· df
t k
· s
t k
9
<
k
=
X
: ;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/105
where: In addition, for qualifying short-term exposures which are not
part of the institution's ongoing financing of the obligor, M
shall be at least one-day. Qualifying short term exposures
S
t k
= a dummy variable whose value at future shall include the following:
period t
k
is equal to 0 if t
k
> 1 year and
to 1 if t
k
≤ 1;
(a) exposures to institutions arising from settlement of foreign
exchange obligations;
EE
t k
= the expected exposure at the future period
t k;
(b) self-liquidating short-term trade financing transactions
EffectiveEE
t k
= the effective expected exposure at the future
connected to the exchange of goods or services with a
period t
k
;
residual maturity of up to one year as referred to in point
(80) of Article 4(1);
df
t k
= the risk-free discount factor for future time
period t
k
;
(c) exposures arising from settlement of securities purchases
and sales within the usual delivery period or two business
Δt k ¼ t k – t k–1 ; days;
(h) an institution that uses an internal model to calculate a one-
sided credit valuation adjustment (CVA) may use, subject to (d) exposures arising from cash settlements by wire transfer and
the permission of the competent authorities, the effective settlements of electronic payment transactions and prepaid
credit duration estimated by the internal model as M. cost, including overdrafts arising from failed transactions
that do not exceed a short, fixed agreed number of
business days.
Subject to paragraph 2, for netting sets in which all
contracts have an original maturity of less than one year
the formula in point (a) shall apply;
4. For exposures to corporates situated in the Union and
having consolidated sales and consolidated assets of less than
EUR 500 million, institutions may choose to consistently set M
(i) for institutions using the Internal Model Method set out in
as set out in paragraph 1 instead of applying paragraph 2.
Section 6 of Chapter 6, to calculate the exposure values and
Institutions may replace EUR 500 million total assets with
having an internal model permission for specific risk
EUR 1 000 million total assets for corporates which primarily
associated with traded debt positions in accordance with
own and let non-speculative residential property.
Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 5, M shall be set to 1 in the
formula laid out in Article 153(1), provided that an insti­
tution can demonstrate to the competent authorities that its
internal model for Specific risk associated with traded debt
5. Maturity mismatches shall be treated as specified in
positions applied in Article 383 contains effects of rating
Chapter 4.
migrations;
(j) for the purposes of Article 153(3), M shall be the effective S u b - S e c t i o n 2
maturity of the credit protection but at least 1 year.
R e t a i l e x p o s u r e s
Article 163
3. Where the documentation requires daily re-margining and
daily revaluation and includes provisions that allow for the Probability of default (PD)
prompt liquidation or set off of collateral in the event of
1. PD of an exposure shall be at least 0,03 %.
default or failure to remargin, M shall be at least one-day for:
(a) fully or nearly-fully collateralised derivative instruments
2. The PD of obligors or, where an obligation approach is
listed in Annex II;
used, of exposures in default shall be 100 %.
(b) fully or nearly-fully collateralised margin lending trans­
actions; 3. For dilution risk of purchased receivables PD shall be set
equal to EL estimates for dilution risk. If an institution can
decompose its EL estimates for dilution risk of purchased
(c) repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending receivables into PDs and LGDs in a manner the competent
or borrowing transactions. authorities consider to be reliable, the PD estimate may be used.
L 176/106 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Unfunded credit protection may be taken into account by considerations, set higher minimum values of exposure
adjusting PDs subject to Article 164(2). For dilution risk, in weighted average LGD for exposures secured by property in
addition to the protection providers referred to in their territory.
Article 201(1)(g), the seller of the purchased receivables is
eligible if the conditions set out in Article 160(4) are met.
Competent authorities shall notify EBA of any changes to the
minimum LGD values that they make in accordance with the
Article 164 first subparagraph and EBA shall publish these LGD values.
Loss Given Default (LGD)
1. Institutions shall provide own estimates of LGDs subject
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
to requirements as specified in Section 6 and permission of the
specify the conditions that competent authorities shall take into
competent authorities granted in accordance with Article 143.
account when determining higher minimum LGD values.
For dilution risk of purchased receivables, an LGD value of 75 %
shall be used. If an institution can decompose its EL estimates
for dilution risk of purchased receivables into PDs and LGDs in
a reliable manner, the institution may use its own LGD EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
estimate. the Commission by 31 December 2014.
2. Unfunded credit protection may be recognised as eligible Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
by adjusting PD or LGD estimates subject to requirements as technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
specified in Article 183(1), (2) and (3) and permission of the accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
competent authorities either in support of an individual No 1093/2010.
exposure or a pool of exposures. An institution shall not
assign guaranteed exposures an adjusted PD or LGD such that
the adjusted risk weight would be lower than that of a
7. The institutions of one Member State shall apply the
comparable, direct exposure to the guarantor.
higher minimum LGD values that have been determined by
the competent authorities of another Member State to
exposures secured by property located in that Member State.
3. For the purposes of Article 154(2), the LGD of a
comparable direct exposure to the protection provider referred
to in Article 153(3) shall either be the LGD associated with an
S u b - S e c t i o n 3
unhedged facility to the guarantor or the unhedged facility of
the obligor, depending upon whether, in the event both the E q u i t y e x p o s u r e s s u b j e c t t o P D / L G D m e t h o d
guarantor and obligor default during the life of the hedged
transaction, available evidence and the structure of the Article 165
guarantee indicate that the amount recovered would depend
Equity exposures subject to the PD/LGD method
on the financial condition of the guarantor or obligor, respect­
ively. 1. PDs shall be determined according to the methods for
corporate exposures.
4. The exposure weighted average LGD for all retail
exposures secured by residential property and not benefiting The following minimum PDs shall apply:
from guarantees from central governments shall not be lower
than 10 %.
(a) 0,09 % for exchange traded equity exposures where the
investment is part of a long-term customer relationship;
The exposure weighted average LGD for all retail exposures
secured by commercial immovable property and not benefiting
from guarantees from central governments shall not be lower
(b) 0,09 % for non-exchange traded equity exposures where the
than 15 %.
returns on the investment are based on regular and periodic
cash flows not derived from capital gains;
5. Based on the data collected under Article 101 and taking
into account forward-looking property market developments
(c) 0,40 % for exchange traded equity exposures including
and any other relevant indicators, the competent authorities
other short positions as set out in Article 155(2);
shall periodically, and at least annually, assess whether the
minimum LGD values in paragraph 4 of this Article are appro­
priate for exposures secured by residential or commercial
immovable property located in their territory. Competent auth­ (d) 1,25 % for all other equity exposures including other short
orities may, where appropriate on the basis of financial stability positions as set out in Article 155(2).
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/107
2. Private equity exposures in sufficiently diversified port­ 6. The exposure value for the calculation of risk weighted
folios may be assigned an LGD of 65 %. All other such exposure amounts of purchased receivables shall be the value
exposures shall be assigned an LGD of 90 %. determined in accordance with paragraph 1 minus the own
funds requirements for dilution risk prior to credit risk miti­
gation.
3. M assigned to all exposures shall be five years.
7. Where an exposure takes the form of securities or
S e c t i o n 5 commodities sold, posted or lent under repurchase transactions
or securities or commodities lending or borrowing transactions,
E x p o s u r e v a l u e
long settlement transactions and margin lending transactions,
Article 166 the exposure value shall be the value of the securities or
commodities determined in accordance with Article 24.
Exposures to corporates, institutions, central governments Where the Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method as set
and central banks and retail exposures out under Article 223 is used, the exposure value shall be
increased by the volatility adjustment appropriate to such
1. Unless noted otherwise, the exposure value of on-balance
securities or commodities, as set out therein. The exposure
sheet exposures shall be the accounting value measured without
value of repurchase transactions, securities or commodities
taking into account any credit risk adjustments made.
lending or borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions
and margin lending transactions may be determined either in
accordance with Chapter 6 or Article 220(2).
This rule also applies to assets purchased at a price different
than the amount owed.
8. The exposure value for the following items shall be
calculated as the committed but undrawn amount multiplied
For purchased assets, the difference between the amount owed
by a conversion factor. Institutions shall use the following
and the accounting value remaining after specific credit risk
conversion factors in accordance with Article 151(8) for
adjustments have been applied that has been recorded on the
exposures to corporates, institutions, central governments and
balance-sheet of the institutions when purchasing the asset is
central banks:
denoted discount if the amount owed is larger, and premium if
it is smaller.
(a) for credit lines that are unconditionally cancellable at any
2. Where institutions use Master netting agreements in
time by the institution without prior notice, or that effec­
relation to repurchase transactions or securities or commodities
tively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterio­
lending or borrowing transactions, the exposure value shall be
ration in a borrower's credit worthiness, a conversion
calculated in accordance with Chapter 4 or 6.
factor of 0 % shall apply. To apply a conversion factor of
0 %, institutions shall actively monitor the financial
condition of the obligor, and their internal control
systems shall enable them to immediately detect deterio­
3. In order to calculate the exposure value for on-balance
ration in the credit quality of the obligor. Undrawn credit
sheet netting of loans and deposits, institutions shall apply
lines may be considered as unconditionally cancellable if the
the methods set out in Chapter 4.
terms permit the institution to cancel them to the full extent
allowable under consumer protection and related legislation;
4. The exposure value for leases shall be the discounted
minimum lease payments. Minimum lease payments shall
comprise the payments over the lease term that the lessee is (b) for short-term letters of credit arising from the movement
or can be required to make and any bargain option (i.e. option of goods, a conversion factor of 20 % shall apply for both
the exercise of which is reasonably certain). If a party other than the issuing and confirming institutions;
the lessee may be required to make a payment related to the
residual value of a leased asset and this payment obligation
fulfils the set of conditions in Article 201 regarding the eligi­
bility of protection providers as well as the requirements for
recognising other types of guarantees provided in Article 213, (c) for undrawn purchase commitments for revolving
the payment obligation may be taken into account as unfunded purchased receivables that are able to be unconditionally
credit protection in accordance with Chapter 4. cancelled or that effectively provide for automatic cancel­
lation at any time by the institution without prior notice, a
conversion factor of 0 % shall apply. To apply a conversion
factor of 0 %, institutions shall actively monitor the financial
5. In the case of any contract listed in Annex II, the exposure condition of the obligor, and their internal control systems
value shall be determined by the methods set out in Chapter 6 shall enable them to immediately detect a deterioration in
and shall not take into account any credit risk adjustment made. the credit quality of the obligor;
L 176/108 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) for other credit lines, note issuance facilities (NIFs), and S e c t i o n 6
revolving underwriting facilities (RUFs), a conversion factor
R e q u i r e m e n t s f o r t h e I R B a p p r o a c h
of 75 % shall apply;
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
R a t i n g s y s t e m s
(e) institutions which meet the requirements for the use of own
Article 169
estimates of conversion factors as specified in Section 6 may
use their own estimates of conversion factors across General principles
different product types as mentioned in points (a) to (d),
subject to permission of the competent authorities. 1. Where an institution uses multiple rating systems, the
rationale for assigning an obligor or a transaction to a rating
system shall be documented and applied in a manner that
appropriately reflects the level of risk.
9. Where a commitment refers to the extension of another
commitment, the lower of the two conversion factors associated
with the individual commitment shall be used.
2. Assignment criteria and processes shall be periodically
reviewed to determine whether they remain appropriate for
the current portfolio and external conditions.
10. For all off-balance sheet items other than those
mentioned in paragraphs 1 to 8, the exposure value shall be
the following percentage of its value:
3. Where an institution uses direct estimates of risk
parameters for individual obligors or exposures these may be
seen as estimates assigned to grades on a continuous rating
(a) 100 % if it is a full risk item; scale.
(b) 50 % if it is a medium-risk item;
Article 170
Structure of rating systems
1. The structure of rating systems for exposures to
(c) 20 % if it is a medium/low-risk item;
corporates, institutions and central governments and central
banks shall comply with the following requirements:
(d) 0 % if it is a low-risk item.
(a) a rating system shall take into account obligor and trans­
action risk characteristics;
For the purposes of this paragraph the off-balance sheet items
shall be assigned to risk categories as indicated in Annex I.
(b) a rating system shall have an obligor rating scale which
reflects exclusively quantification of the risk of obligor
Article 167 default. The obligor rating scale shall have a minimum of
7 grades for non-defaulted obligors and one for defaulted
Equity exposures
obligors;
1. The exposure value of equity exposures shall be the
accounting value remaining after specific credit risk adjustment
have been applied.
(c) an institution shall document the relationship between
obligor grades in terms of the level of default risk each
grade implies and the criteria used to distinguish that level
2. The exposure value of off-balance sheet equity exposures of default risk;
shall be its nominal value after reducing its nominal value by
specific credit risk adjustments for this exposure.
(d) institutions with portfolios concentrated in a particular
market segment and range of default risk shall have
Article 168 enough obligor grades within that range to avoid undue
concentrations of obligors in a particular grade. Significant
Other non credit-obligation assets
concentrations within a single grade shall be supported by
The exposure value of other non credit-obligation assets shall be convincing empirical evidence that the obligor grade covers
the accounting value remaining after specific credit risk a reasonably narrow PD band and that the default risk
adjustment have been applied posed by all obligors in the grade falls within that band;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/109
(e) to be permitted by the competent authority to use own (c) delinquency, except where an institution demonstrates to
estimates of LGDs for own funds requirement calculation, the satisfaction of its competent authority that delinquency
a rating system shall incorporate a distinct facility rating is not a material driver of risk for the exposure.
scale which exclusively reflects LGD related transaction char­
acteristics. The facility grade definition shall include both a
description of how exposures are assigned to the grade and
Article 171
of the criteria used to distinguish the level of risk across
grades; Assignment to grades or pools
1. An institution shall have specific definitions, processes and
criteria for assigning exposures to grades or pools within a
(f) significant concentrations within a single facility grade shall rating system that comply with the following requirements:
be supported by convincing empirical evidence that the
facility grade covers a reasonably narrow LGD band,
respectively, and that the risk posed by all exposures in
(a) the grade or pool definitions and criteria shall be sufficiently
the grade falls within that band.
detailed to allow those charged with assigning ratings to
consistently assign obligors or facilities posing similar risk
to the same grade or pool. This consistency shall exist
2. Institutions using the methods set out in 153(5) for across lines of business, departments and geographic
assigning risk weights for specialised lending exposures are locations;
exempt from the requirement to have an obligor rating scale
which reflects exclusively quantification of the risk of obligor
default for these exposures. These institutions shall have for
(b) the documentation of the rating process shall allow third
these exposures at least 4 grades for non-defaulted obligors
parties to understand the assignments of exposures to
and at least one grade for defaulted obligors.
grades or pools, to replicate grade and pool assignments
and to evaluate the appropriateness of the assignments to
a grade or a pool;
3. The structure of rating systems for retail exposures shall
comply with the following requirements:
(c) the criteria shall also be consistent with the institution's
internal lending standards and its policies for handling
(a) rating systems shall reflect both obligor and transaction risk, troubled obligors and facilities.
and shall capture all relevant obligor and transaction char­
acteristics;
2. An institution shall take all relevant information into
account in assigning obligors and facilities to grades or pools.
(b) the level of risk differentiation shall ensure that the number Information shall be current and shall enable the institution to
of exposures in a given grade or pool is sufficient to allow forecast the future performance of the exposure. The less
for meaningful quantification and validation of the loss information an institution has, the more conservative shall be
characteristics at the grade or pool level. The distribution its assignments of exposures to obligor and facility grades or
of exposures and obligors across grades or pools shall be pools. If an institution uses an external rating as a primary
such as to avoid excessive concentrations; factor determining an internal rating assignment, the institution
shall ensure that it considers other relevant information.
(c) the process of assigning exposures to grades or pools shall
provide for a meaningful differentiation of risk, for a Article 172
grouping of sufficiently homogenous exposures, and shall
allow for accurate and consistent estimation of loss char­ Assignment of exposures
acteristics at grade or pool level. For purchased receivables
1. For exposures to corporates, institutions and central
the grouping shall reflect the seller's underwriting practices
governments and central banks, and for equity exposures
and the heterogeneity of its customers.
where an institution uses the PD/LGD approach set out in
Article 155(3), assignment of exposures shall be carried out
in accordance with the following criteria:
4. Institutions shall consider the following risk drivers when
assigning exposures to grades or pools:
(a) each obligor shall be assigned to an obligor grade as part of
the credit approval process;
(a) obligor risk characteristics;
(b) for those exposures for which an institution has received the
(b) transaction risk characteristics, including product or permission of the competent authority to use own estimates
collateral types or both. Institutions shall explicitly address of LGDs and conversion factors pursuant to Article 143,
cases where several exposures benefit from the same each exposure shall also be assigned to a facility grade as
collateral; part of the credit approval process;
L 176/110 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) institutions using the methods set out in Article 153(5) for (b) Institutions shall review assignments at least annually and
assigning risk weights for specialised lending exposures shall adjust the assignment where the result of the review does
assign each of these exposures to a grade in accordance with not justify carrying forward the current assignment. High
Article 170(2); risk obligors and problem exposures shall be subject to
more frequent review. Institutions shall undertake a new
assignment if material information on the obligor or
exposure becomes available;
(d) each separate legal entity to which the institution is exposed
shall be separately rated. An institution shall have appro­
priate policies regarding the treatment of individual obligor
clients and groups of connected clients;
(c) An institution shall have an effective process to obtain and
update relevant information on obligor characteristics that
affect PDs, and on transaction characteristics that affect
(e) separate exposures to the same obligor shall be assigned to
LGDs or conversion factors.
the same obligor grade, irrespective of any differences in the
nature of each specific transaction. However, where separate
exposures are allowed to result in multiple grades for the
same obligor, the following shall apply:
2. For retail exposures, an institution shall at least annually
review obligor and facility assignments and adjust the
assignment where the result of the review does not justify
(i) country transfer risk, this being dependent on whether carrying forward the current assignment, or review the loss
the exposures are denominated in local or foreign characteristics and delinquency status of each identified risk
currency; pool, whichever applicable. An institution shall also at least
annually review in a representative sample the status of indi­
vidual exposures within each pool as a means of ensuring that
(ii) the treatment of associated guarantees to an exposure exposures continue to be assigned to the correct pool, and
may be reflected in an adjusted assignment to an adjust the assignment where the result of the review does not
obligor grade; justify carrying forward the current assignment.
(iii) consumer protection, bank secrecy or other legislation
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards for
prohibit the exchange of client data.
the methodologies of the competent authorities to assess the
integrity of the assignment process and the regular and inde­
pendent assessment of risks.
2. For retail exposures, each exposure shall be assigned to a
grade or a pool as part of the credit approval process.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
3. For grade and pool assignments institutions shall the Commission by 31 December 2014.
document the situations in which human judgement may
override the inputs or outputs of the assignment process and
the personnel responsible for approving these overrides. Insti­
tutions shall document these overrides and note down the
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
personnel responsible. Institutions shall analyse the performance
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
of the exposures whose assignments have been overridden. This
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
analysis shall include an assessment of the performance of
No 1093/2010.
exposures whose rating has been overridden by a particular
person, accounting for all the responsible personnel.
Article 174
Article 173
Use of models
Integrity of assignment process
If an institution uses statistical models and other mechanical
1. For exposures to corporates, institutions and central methods to assign exposures to obligors or facilities grades or
governments and central banks, and for equity exposures pools, the following requirements shall be met:
where an institution uses the PD/LGD approach set out in
Article 155(3), the assignment process shall meet the
following requirements of integrity:
(a) the model shall have good predictive power and capital
requirements shall not be distorted as a result of its use.
(a) Assignments and periodic reviews of assignments shall be The input variables shall form a reasonable and effective
completed or approved by an independent party that does basis for the resulting predictions. The model shall not
not directly benefit from decisions to extend the credit; have material biases;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/111
(b) the institution shall have in place a process for vetting data (a) provide a detailed outline of the theory, assumptions and
inputs into the model, which includes an assessment of the mathematical and empirical basis of the assignment of
accuracy, completeness and appropriateness of the data; estimates to grades, individual obligors, exposures, or
pools, and the data source(s) used to estimate the model;
(b) establish a rigorous statistical process including out-of-time
(c) the data used to build the model shall be representative of
and out-of-sample performance tests for validating the
the population of the institution's actual obligors or
model;
exposures;
(c) indicate any circumstances under which the model does not
work effectively.
(d) the institution shall have a regular cycle of model validation
that includes monitoring of model performance and
stability; review of model specification; and testing of 5. An institution shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
model outputs against outcomes; competent authority that the requirements of this Article are
met, where an institution has obtained a rating system, or
model used within a rating system, from a third-party vendor
and that vendor refuses or restricts the access of the institution
(e) the institution shall complement the statistical model by to information pertaining to the methodology of that rating
human judgement and human oversight to review model- system or model, or underlying data used to develop that
based assignments and to ensure that the models are used methodology or model, on the basis that such information is
appropriately. Review procedures shall aim at finding and proprietary.
limiting errors associated with model weaknesses. Human
judgements shall take into account all relevant information
not considered by the model. The institution shall document Article 176
how human judgement and model results are to be
Data maintenance
combined.
1. Institutions shall collect and store data on aspects of their
internal ratings as required under Part Eight.
Article 175
2. For exposures to corporates, institutions and central
Documentation of rating systems governments and central banks, and for equity exposures
where an institution uses the PD/LGD approach set out in
1. The institutions shall document the design and operational
Article 155(3), institutions shall collect and store:
details of its rating systems. The documentation shall provide
evidence of compliance with the requirements in this Section,
and address topics including portfolio differentiation, rating
(a) complete rating histories on obligors and recognised guar­
criteria, responsibilities of parties that rate obligors and
antors;
exposures, frequency of assignment reviews, and management
oversight of the rating process.
(b) the dates the ratings were assigned;
2. The institution shall document the rationale for and (c) the key data and methodology used to derive the rating;
analysis supporting its choice of rating criteria. An institution
shall document all major changes in the risk rating process, and
such documentation shall support identification of changes (d) the person responsible for the rating assignment;
made to the risk rating process subsequent to the last review
by the competent authorities. The organisation of rating
assignment including the rating assignment process and the (e) the identity of obligors and exposures that defaulted;
internal control structure shall also be documented.
(f) the date and circumstances of such defaults;
3. The institutions shall document the specific definitions of
(g) data on the PDs and realised default rates associated with
default and loss used internally and ensure consistency with the
rating grades and ratings migration.
definitions set out in this Regulation.
3. Institutions not using own estimates of LGDs and
conversion factors shall collect and store data on comparisons
4. Where the institution employs statistical models in the of realised LGDs to the values as set out in Article 161(1) and
rating process, the institution shall document their methodol­ realised conversion factors to the values as set out in
ogies. This material shall: Article 166(8).
L 176/112 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Institutions using own estimates of LGDs and conversion future changes in economic conditions that could have unfa­
factors shall collect and store: vourable effects on an institution's credit exposures and
assessment of the institution's ability to withstand such changes.
(a) complete histories of data on the facility ratings and LGD
and conversion factor estimates associated with each rating 2. An institution shall regularly perform a credit risk stress
scale; test to assess the effect of certain specific conditions on its total
capital requirements for credit risk. The test shall be one chosen
by the institution, subject to supervisory review. The test to be
(b) the dates the ratings were assigned and the estimates were employed shall be meaningful and consider the effects of severe,
done; but plausible, recession scenarios. An institution shall assess
migration in its ratings under the stress test scenarios.
Stressed portfolios shall contain the vast majority of an institu­
tion's total exposure.
(c) the key data and methodology used to derive the facility
ratings and LGD and conversion factor estimates;
3. Institutions using the treatment set out in Article 153(3)
(d) the person who assigned the facility rating and the person shall consider as part of their stress testing framework the
who provided LGD and conversion factor estimates; impact of a deterioration in the credit quality of protection
providers, in particular the impact of protection providers
falling outside the eligibility criteria.
(e) data on the estimated and realised LGDs and conversion
factors associated with each defaulted exposure;
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
R i s k q u a n t i f i c a t i o n
(f) data on the LGD of the exposure before and after evaluation
of the effects of a guarantee/or credit derivative, for those Article 178
institutions that reflect the credit risk mitigating effects of
Default of an obligor
guarantees or credit derivatives through LGD;
1. A default shall be considered to have occurred with regard
to a particular obligor when either or both of the following
(g) data on the components of loss for each defaulted exposure. have taken place:
5. For retail exposures, institutions shall collect and store: (a) the institution considers that the obligor is unlikely to pay
its credit obligations to the institution, the parent under­
taking or any of its subsidiaries in full, without recourse
(a) data used in the process of allocating exposures to grades or by the institution to actions such as realising security;
pools;
(b) the obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material
(b) data on the estimated PDs, LGDs and conversion factors credit obligation to the institution, the parent undertaking
associated with grades or pools of exposures; or any of its subsidiaries. Competent authorities may replace
the 90 days with 180 days for exposures secured by resi­
dential or SME commercial real estate in the retail exposure
(c) the identity of obligors and exposures that defaulted; class, as well as exposures to public sector entities). The 180
days shall not apply for the purposes of Article 127.
(d) for defaulted exposures, data on the grades or pools to
which the exposure was assigned over the year prior to In the case of retail exposures, institutions may apply the defi­
default and the realised outcomes on LGD and conversion nition of default laid down in points (a) and (b) of the first
factor; subparagraph at the level of an individual credit facility rather
than in relation to the total obligations of a borrower.
(e) data on loss rates for qualifying revolving retail exposures.
2. The following shall apply for the purposes of point (b) of
paragraph 1:
Article 177
Stress tests used in assessment of capital adequacy
(a) for overdrafts, days past due commence once an obligor has
1. An institution shall have in place sound stress testing breached an advised limit, has been advised a limit smaller
processes for use in the assessment of its capital adequacy. than current outstandings, or has drawn credit without
Stress testing shall involve identifying possible events or authorisation and the underlying amount is material;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/113
(b) for the purposes of point (a), an advised limit comprises any 4. Institutions that use external data that is not itself
credit limit determined by the institution and about which consistent with the definition of default laid down in
the obligor has been informed by the institution; paragraph 1, shall make appropriate adjustments to achieve
broad equivalence with the definition of default.
(c) days past due for credit cards commence on the minimum
payment due date;
5. If the institution considers that a previously defaulted
exposure is such that no trigger of default continues to apply,
the institution shall rate the obligor or facility as they would for
(d) materiality of a credit obligation past due shall be assessed a non-defaulted exposure. Where the definition of default is
against a threshold, defined by the competent authorities. subsequently triggered, another default would be deemed to
This threshold shall reflect a level of risk that the competent have occurred.
authority considers to be reasonable;
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
(e) institutions shall have documented policies in respect of the specify the conditions according to which a competent
counting of days past due, in particular in respect of the re- authority shall set the threshold referred to in paragraph 2(d).
ageing of the facilities and the granting of extensions,
amendments or deferrals, renewals, and netting of existing
accounts. These policies shall be applied consistently over
time, and shall be in line with the internal risk management EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
and decision processes of the institution. the Commission by 31 December 2014.
3. For the purpose of point (a) of paragraph 1, elements to
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
be taken as indications of unlikeliness to pay shall include the
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
following:
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) the institution puts the credit obligation on non-accrued
status;
7. EBA shall issue guidelines on the application of this
Article. Those guidelines shall be adopted in accordance with
Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(b) the institution recognises a specific credit adjustment
resulting from a significant perceived decline in credit
quality subsequent to the institution taking on the exposure;
Article 179
Overall requirements for estimation
(c) the institution sells the credit obligation at a material credit-
related economic loss; 1. In quantifying the risk parameters to be associated with
rating grades or pools, institutions shall apply the following
requirements:
(d) the institution consents to a distressed restructuring of the
credit obligation where this is likely to result in a
diminished financial obligation caused by the material (a) an institution's own estimates of the risk parameters PD,
forgiveness, or postponement, of principal, interest or, LGD, conversion factor and EL shall incorporate all
where relevant fees. This includes, in the case of equity relevant data, information and methods. The estimates
exposures assessed under a PD/LGD Approach, distressed shall be derived using both historical experience and
restructuring of the equity itself; empirical evidence, and not based purely on judgemental
considerations. The estimates shall be plausible and
intuitive and shall be based on the material drivers of the
respective risk parameters. The less data an institution has,
(e) the institution has filed for the obligor's bankruptcy or a
the more conservative it shall be in its estimation;
similar order in respect of an obligor's credit obligation to
the institution, the parent undertaking or any of its subsidi­
aries;
(b) an institution shall be able to provide a breakdown of its
loss experience in terms of default frequency, LGD,
(f) the obligor has sought or has been placed in bankruptcy or conversion factor, or loss where EL estimates are used, by
similar protection where this would avoid or delay the factors it sees as the drivers of the respective risk
repayment of a credit obligation to the institution, the parameters. The institution's estimates shall be represen­
parent undertaking or any of its subsidiaries. tative of long run experience;
L 176/114 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) any changes in lending practice or the process for pursuing (c) the pooled data is used consistently over time by the insti­
recoveries over the observation periods referred to in tution for its estimates;
Article 180(1)(h) and (2)(e), Article 181(1)(j) and (2), and
Article 182(2) and (3) shall be taken into account. An
institution's estimates shall reflect the implications of
technical advances and new data and other information, (d) the institution shall remain responsible for the integrity of
as it becomes available. Institutions shall review their its rating systems;
estimates when new information comes to light but at
least on an annual basis;
(e) the institution shall maintain sufficient in-house under­
standing of its rating systems, including the ability to effec­
tively monitor and audit the rating process.
(d) the population of exposures represented in the data used for
estimation, the lending standards used when the data was
generated and other relevant characteristics shall be
comparable with those of the institution's exposures and
Article 180
standards. The economic or market conditions that
underlie the data shall be relevant to current and foreseeable Requirements specific to PD estimation
conditions. The number of exposures in the sample and the
1. In quantifying the risk parameters to be associated with
data period used for quantification shall be sufficient to
rating grades or pools, institutions shall apply the following
provide the institution with confidence in the accuracy
requirements specific to PD estimation to exposures to
and robustness of its estimates;
corporates, institutions and central governments and central
banks and for equity exposures where an institution uses the
PD/LGD approach set out in Article 155(3):
(e) for purchased receivables the estimates shall reflect all
relevant information available to the purchasing institution
regarding the quality of the underlying receivables, including
(a) institutions shall estimate PDs by obligor grade from long
data for similar pools provided by the seller, by the
run averages of one-year default rates. PD estimates for
purchasing institution, or by external sources. The
obligors that are highly leveraged or for obligors whose
purchasing institution shall evaluate any data relied upon
assets are predominantly traded assets shall reflect the
which is provided by the seller;
performance of the underlying assets based on periods of
stressed volatilities;
(f) an institution shall add to its estimates a margin of conser­
vatism that is related to the expected range of estimation
(b) for purchased corporate receivables institutions may
errors. Where methods and data are considered to be less
estimate the EL by obligor grade from long run averages
satisfactory, the expected range of errors is larger, the
of one-year realised default rates;
margin of conservatism shall be larger.
(c) if an institution derives long run average estimates of PDs
Where institutions use different estimates for the calculation of and LGDs for purchased corporate receivables from an
risk weights and for internal purposes, it shall be documented estimate of EL, and an appropriate estimate of PD or
and be reasonable. If institutions can demonstrate to their LGD, the process for estimating total losses shall meet the
competent authorities that for data that have been collected overall standards for estimation of PD and LGD set out in
prior to 1 January 2007 appropriate adjustments have been this part, and the outcome shall be consistent with the
made to achieve broad equivalence with the definition of concept of LGD as set out in Article 181(1)(a);
default laid down in Article 178 or with loss, competent auth­
orities may permit the institutions some flexibility in the appli­
cation of the required standards for data.
(d) institutions shall use PD estimation techniques only with
supporting analysis. Institutions shall recognise the
importance of judgmental considerations in combining
2. Where an institution uses data that is pooled across insti­ results of techniques and in making adjustments for limi­
tutions it shall meet the following requirements: tations of techniques and information;
(a) the rating systems and criteria of other institutions in the (e) to the extent that an institution uses data on internal default
pool are similar with its own; experience for the estimation of PDs, the estimates shall be
reflective of underwriting standards and of any differences
in the rating system that generated the data and the current
rating system. Where underwriting standards or rating
(b) the pool is representative of the portfolio for which the systems have changed, the institution shall add a greater
pooled data is used; margin of conservatism in its estimate of PD;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/115
(f) to the extent that an institution associates or maps its data (including pooled data) or statistical models for quan­
internal grades to the scale used by an ECAI or similar tification provided the following strong links both exist:
organisations and then attributes the default rate observed
for the external organisation's grades to the institution's
grades, mappings shall be based on a comparison of (i) between the institution's process of assigning exposures
internal rating criteria to the criteria used by the external to grades or pools and the process used by the external
organisation and on a comparison of the internal and data source; and
external ratings of any common obligors. Biases or incon­
sistencies in the mapping approach or underlying data shall
be avoided. The criteria of the external organisation
(ii) between the institution's internal risk profile and the
underlying the data used for quantification shall be
composition of the external data;
oriented to default risk only and not reflect transaction
characteristics. The analysis undertaken by the institution
shall include a comparison of the default definitions used,
subject to the requirements in Article 178. The institution (d) if an institution derives long run average estimates of PD
shall document the basis for the mapping; and LGD for retail from an estimate of total losses and an
appropriate estimate of PD or LGD, the process for esti­
mating total losses shall meet the overall standards for esti­
mation of PD and LGD set out in this part, and the
outcome shall be consistent with the concept of LGD as
(g) to the extent that an institution uses statistical default
set out in point (a) of Article 181(1);
prediction models it is allowed to estimate PDs as the
simple average of default-probability estimates for individual
obligors in a given grade. The institution's use of default
(e) irrespective of whether an institution is using external,
probability models for this purpose shall meet the standards
internal or pooled data sources or a combination of the
specified in Article 174;
three, for their estimation of loss characteristics, the
length of the underlying historical observation period used
shall be at least five years for at least one source. If the
available observation spans a longer period for any source,
(h) irrespective of whether an institution is using external, and these data are relevant, this longer period shall be used.
internal, or pooled data sources, or a combination of the An institution need not give equal importance to historic
three, for its PD estimation, the length of the underlying data if more recent data is a better predictor of loss rates.
historical observation period used shall be at least five years Subject to the permission of the competent authorities,
for at least one source. If the available observation period institutions may use, when they implement the IRB
spans a longer period for any source, and this data is Approach, relevant data covering a period of two years.
relevant, this longer period shall be used. This point also The period to be covered shall increase by one year each
applies to the PD/LGD Approach to equity. Subject to the year until relevant data cover a period of five years;
permission of competent authorities, institutions which have
not received the permission of the competent authority
pursuant to Article 143 to use own estimates of LGDs or
(f) institutions shall identify and analyse expected changes of
conversion factors may use, when they implement the IRB
risk parameters over the life of credit exposures (seasoning
Approach, relevant data covering a period of two years. The
effects).
period to be covered shall increase by one year each year
until relevant data cover a period of five years.
For purchased retail receivables, institutions may use external
and internal reference data. Institutions shall use all relevant
data sources as points of comparison.
2. For retail exposures, the following requirements shall
apply:
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following:
(a) institutions shall estimate PDs by obligor grade or pool
from long run averages of one-year default rates;
(a) the conditions according to which competent authorities
may grant the permissions referred to in point (h) of
paragraph 1 and point (e) of paragraph 2;
(b) PD estimates may also be derived from an estimate of total
losses and appropriate estimates of LGDs; (b) the methodologies according to which competent auth­
orities shall assess the methodology of an institution for
estimating PD pursuant to Article 143.
(c) institutions shall regard internal data for assigning exposures
to grades or pools as the primary source of information for EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
estimating loss characteristics. Institutions may use external the Commission by 31 December 2014.
L 176/116 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory (h) for the specific case of exposures already in default, the
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in institution shall use the sum of its best estimate of
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) expected loss for each exposure given current economic
No 1093/2010. circumstances and exposure status and its estimate of the
increase of loss rate caused by possible additional
unexpected losses during the recovery period, i.e. between
date of default and final liquidation of the exposure;
Article 181
Requirements specific to own-LGD estimates
(i) to the extent that unpaid late fees have been capitalised in
1. In quantifying the risk parameters to be associated with the institution's income statement, they shall be added to
rating grades or pools, institutions shall apply the following the institution's measure of exposure and loss;
requirements specific to own-LGD estimates:
(j) for exposures to corporates, institutions and central
governments and central banks, estimates of LGD shall be
(a) institutions shall estimate LGDs by facility grade or pool on
based on data over a minimum of five years, increasing by
the basis of the average realised LGDs by facility grade or
one year each year after implementation until a minimum
pool using all observed defaults within the data sources
of seven years is reached, for at least one data source. If the
(default weighted average);
available observation period spans a longer period for any
source, and the data is relevant, this longer period shall be
used.
(b) institutions shall use LGD estimates that are appropriate for
an economic downturn if those are more conservative than
the long-run average. To the extent a rating system is 2. For retail exposures, institutions may do the following:
expected to deliver realised LGDs at a constant level by
grade or pool over time, institutions shall make adjustments
to their estimates of risk parameters by grade or pool to (a) derive LGD estimates from realised losses and appropriate
limit the capital impact of an economic downturn; estimates of PDs;
(b) reflect future drawings either in their conversion factors or
(c) an institution shall consider the extent of any dependence
in their LGD estimates;
between the risk of the obligor with that of the collateral or
collateral provider. Cases where there is a significant degree
of dependence shall be addressed in a conservative manner;
(c) For purchased retail receivables use external and internal
reference data to estimate LGDs.
(d) currency mismatches between the underlying obligation and
the collateral shall be treated conservatively in the institu­ For retail exposures, estimates of LGD shall be based on data
tion's assessment of LGD; over a minimum of five years. An institution needs not give
equal importance to historic data if more recent data is a better
predictor of loss rates. Subject to the permission of the
competent authorities, institutions may use, when they
(e) to the extent that LGD estimates take into account the implement the IRB Approach, relevant data covering a period
existence of collateral, these estimates shall not solely be of two years. The period to be covered shall increase by one
based on the collateral's estimated market value. LGD year each year until relevant data cover a period of five years.
estimates shall take into account the effect of the
potential inability of institutions to expeditiously gain
control of their collateral and liquidate it; 3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following:
(f) to the extent that LGD estimates take into account the
(a) the nature, severity and duration of an economic downturn
existence of collateral, institutions shall establish internal
referred to in paragraph 1;
requirements for collateral management, legal certainty
and risk management that are generally consistent with
those set out in Chapter 4, Section 3;
(b) the conditions according to which a competent authority
may permit and institution pursuant to paragraph 3 to use
relevant data covering a period of two years when the
(g) to the extent that an institution recognises collateral for institution implements the IRB Approach.
determining the exposure value for counterparty credit
risk in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 5 or 6, any
amount expected to be recovered from the collateral shall EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
not be taken into account in the LGD estimates; the Commission by 31 December 2014.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/117
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory 2. For exposures to corporates, institutions and central
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in governments and central banks, estimates of conversion
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) factors shall be based on data over a minimum of five years,
No 1093/2010. increasing by one year each year after implementation until a
minimum of seven years is reached, for at least one data source.
If the available observation period spans a longer period for any
source, and the data is relevant, this longer period shall be used.
Article 182
Requirements specific to own-conversion factor estimates
3. For retail exposures, institutions may reflect future
1. In quantifying the risk parameters to be associated with drawings either in their conversion factors or in their LGD
rating grades or pools, institutions shall apply the following estimates.
requirements specific to own-conversion factor estimates:
For retail exposures, estimates of conversion factors shall be
based on data over a minimum of five years. By way of dero­
(a) institutions shall estimate conversion factors by facility
gation from point (a) of paragraph 1, an institution need not
grade or pool on the basis of the average realised
give equal importance to historic data if more recent data is a
conversion factors by facility grade or pool using the
better predictor of draw downs. Subject to the permission of
default weighted average resulting from all observed
competent authorities, institutions may use, when they
defaults within the data sources;
implement the IRB Approach, relevant data covering a period
of two years. The period to be covered shall increase by one
year each year until relevant data cover a period of five years.
(b) institutions shall use conversion factor estimates that are
appropriate for an economic downturn if those are more
conservative than the long-run average. To the extent a 4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
rating system is expected to deliver realised conversion specify the following:
factors at a constant level by grade or pool over time,
institutions shall make adjustments to their estimates of
risk parameters by grade or pool to limit the capital
(a) the nature, severity and duration of an economic downturn
impact of an economic downturn;
referred to in paragraph 1;
(c) institutions' estimates of conversion factors shall reflect the (b) conditions according to which a competent authority may
possibility of additional drawings by the obligor up to and permit and institution to use relevant data covering a period
after the time a default event is triggered. The conversion of two years at the time an institution first implements the
factor estimate shall incorporate a larger margin of conser­ IRB Approach.
vatism where a stronger positive correlation can reasonably
be expected between the default frequency and the
magnitude of conversion factor;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
(d) in arriving at estimates of conversion factors institutions
shall consider their specific policies and strategies adopted Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
in respect of account monitoring and payment processing. technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Institutions shall also consider their ability and willingness accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
to prevent further drawings in circumstances short of No 1093/2010.
payment default, such as covenant violations or other
technical default events;
Article 183
Requirements for assessing the effect of guarantees and
(e) institutions shall have adequate systems and procedures in credit derivatives for exposures to corporates,
place to monitor facility amounts, current outstandings institutions and central governments and central banks
against committed lines and changes in outstandings per where own estimates of LGD are used and retail exposures
obligor and per grade. The institution shall be able to
1. The following requirements shall apply in relation to
monitor outstanding balances on a daily basis;
eligible guarantors and guarantees:
(f) if institutions use different estimates of conversion factors (a) institutions shall have clearly specified criteria for the types
for the calculation of risk weighted exposure amounts and of guarantors they recognise for the calculation of risk
internal purposes it shall be documented and be reasonable. weighted exposure amounts;
L 176/118 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) for recognised guarantors the same rules as for obligors as 5. For retail guarantees, the requirements set out in para­
set out in Articles 171, 172 and 173 shall apply; graphs 1, 2 and 3 shall also apply to the assignment of
exposures to grades or pools, and the estimation of PD.
(c) the guarantee shall be evidenced in writing, non-cancellable
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
on the part of the guarantor, in force until the obligation is
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities
satisfied in full (to the extent of the amount and tenor of
may permit conditional guarantees to be recognised.
the guarantee) and legally enforceable against the guarantor
in a jurisdiction where the guarantor has assets to attach
and enforce a judgement. Conditional guarantees prescribing
conditions under which the guarantor may not be obliged
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
to perform may be recognised subject to permission of the
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
competent authorities. The assignment criteria shall
adequately address any potential reduction in the risk miti­
gation effect.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
2. An institution shall have clearly specified criteria for No 1093/2010.
adjusting grades, pools or LGD estimates, and, in the case of
retail and eligible purchased receivables, the process of allo­
cating exposures to grades or pools, to reflect the impact of
Article 184
guarantees for the calculation of risk weighted exposure
amounts. These criteria shall comply with the requirements Requirements for purchased receivables
set out in Articles 171, 172 and 173.
1. In quantifying the risk parameters to be associated with
rating grades or pools for purchased receivables, institutions
shall ensure the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 to 6
are met.
The criteria shall be plausible and intuitive. They shall address
the guarantor's ability and willingness to perform under the
guarantee, the likely timing of any payments from the guar­
antor, the degree to which the guarantor's ability to perform
2. The structure of the facility shall ensure that under all
under the guarantee is correlated with the obligor's ability to
foreseeable circumstances the institution has effective
repay, and the extent to which residual risk to the obligor
ownership and control of all cash remittances from the receiv­
remains.
ables. When the obligor makes payments directly to a seller or
servicer, the institution shall verify regularly that payments are
forwarded completely and within the contractually agreed
terms. Institutions shall have procedures to ensure that
3. The requirements for guarantees in this Article shall apply ownership over the receivables and cash receipts is protected
also for single-name credit derivatives. In relation to a mismatch against bankruptcy stays or legal challenges that could
between the underlying obligation and the reference obligation materially delay the lender's ability to liquidate or assign the
of the credit derivative or the obligation used for determining receivables or retain control over cash receipts.
whether a credit event has occurred, the requirements set out
under Article 216(2) shall apply. For retail exposures and
eligible purchased receivables, this paragraph applies to the
process of allocating exposures to grades or pools. 3. The institution shall monitor both the quality of the
purchased receivables and the financial condition of the seller
and servicer. The following shall apply:
The criteria shall address the payout structure of the credit
derivative and conservatively assess the impact this has on the
(a) the institution shall assess the correlation among the quality
level and timing of recoveries. The institution shall consider the
of the purchased receivables and the financial condition of
extent to which other forms of residual risk remain.
both the seller and servicer, and have in place internal
policies and procedures that provide adequate safeguards
to protect against any contingencies, including the
assignment of an internal risk rating for each seller and
4. The requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not servicer;
apply for guarantees provided by institutions, central
governments and central banks, and corporate entities which
meet the requirements laid down in Article 201(1)(g) if the
institution has received permission to apply the Standardised (b) the institution shall have clear and effective policies and
Approach for exposures to such entities pursuant to Articles procedures for determining seller and servicer eligibility.
148 and 150. In this case the requirements of Chapter 4 The institution or its agent shall conduct periodic reviews
shall apply. of sellers and servicers in order to verify the accuracy of
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/119
reports from the seller or servicer, detect fraud or oper­ of back office operations, with particular focus on qualifications,
ational weaknesses, and verify the quality of the seller's experience, staffing levels, and supporting automation systems.
credit policies and servicer's collection policies and
procedures. The findings of these reviews shall be docu­
mented;
S u b - S e c t i o n 3
V a l i d a t i o n o f i n t e r n a l e s t i m a t e s
(c) the institution shall assess the characteristics of the
Article 185
purchased receivables pools, including over-advances;
history of the seller's arrears, bad debts, and bad debt allow­ Validation of internal estimates
ances; payment terms, and potential contra accounts;
Institutions shall validate their internal estimates subject to the
following requirements:
(d) the institution shall have effective policies and procedures
for monitoring on an aggregate basis single-obligor concen­
(a) institutions shall have robust systems in place to validate the
trations both within and across purchased receivables pools;
accuracy and consistency of rating systems, processes, and
the estimation of all relevant risk parameters. The internal
validation process shall enable the institution to assess the
performance of internal rating and risk estimation systems
(e) the institution shall ensure that it receives from the servicer
consistently and meaningfully;
timely and sufficiently detailed reports of receivables ageings
and dilutions to ensure compliance with the institution's
eligibility criteria and advancing policies governing
purchased receivables, and provide an effective means with
(b) institutions shall regularly compare realised default rates
which to monitor and confirm the seller's terms of sale and
with estimated PDs for each grade and, where realised
dilution.
default rates are outside the expected range for that grade,
institutions shall specifically analyse the reasons for the
deviation. Institutions using own estimates of LGDs and
conversion factors shall also perform analogous analysis
4. The institution shall have systems and procedures for
for these estimates. Such comparisons shall make use of
detecting deteriorations in the seller's financial condition and
historical data that cover as long a period as possible. The
purchased receivables quality at an early stage, and for
institution shall document the methods and data used in
addressing emerging problems pro-actively. In particular, the
such comparisons. This analysis and documentation shall
institution shall have clear and effective policies, procedures,
be updated at least annually;
and information systems to monitor covenant violations, and
clear and effective policies and procedures for initiating legal
actions and dealing with problem purchased receivables.
(c) institutions shall also use other quantitative validation tools
and comparisons with relevant external data sources. The
5. The institution shall have clear and effective policies and analysis shall be based on data that are appropriate to the
procedures governing the control of purchased receivables, portfolio, are updated regularly, and cover a relevant obser­
credit, and cash. In particular, written internal policies shall vation period. Institutions' internal assessments of the
specify all material elements of the receivables purchase performance of their rating systems shall be based on as
programme, including the advancing rates, eligible collateral, long a period as possible;
necessary documentation, concentration limits, and the way
cash receipts are to be handled. These elements shall take
appropriate account of all relevant and material factors,
including the seller and servicer's financial condition, risk (d) the methods and data used for quantitative validation shall
concentrations, and trends in the quality of the purchased be consistent through time. Changes in estimation and vali­
receivables and the seller's customer base, and internal dation methods and data (both data sources and periods
systems shall ensure that funds are advanced only against covered) shall be documented;
specified supporting collateral and documentation.
(e) institutions shall have sound internal standards for situ­
6. The institution shall have an effective internal process for ations where deviations in realised PDs, LGDs, conversion
assessing compliance with all internal policies and procedures. factors and total losses, where EL is used, from expectations,
The process shall include regular audits of all critical phases of become significant enough to call the validity of the
the institution's receivables purchase programme, verification of estimates into question. These standards shall take account
the separation of duties between firstly the assessment of the of business cycles and similar systematic variability in
seller and servicer and the assessment of the obligor and default experience. Where realised values continue to be
secondly between the assessment of the seller and servicer higher than expected values, institutions shall revise
and the field audit of the seller and servicer, and evaluations estimates upward to reflect their default and loss experience;
L 176/120 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
S u b - S e c t i o n 4 (e) institutions shall demonstrate through empirical analyses the
appropriateness of risk factors, including their ability to
R e q u i r e m e n t s f o r e q u i t y e x p o s u r e s u n d e r t h e
cover both general and specific risk;
i n t e r n a l m o d e l s a p p r o a c h
Article 186
Own funds requirement and risk quantification
(f) the estimates of the return volatility of equity exposures
For the purpose of calculating own funds requirements insti­ shall incorporate relevant and available data, information,
tutions shall meet the following standards: and methods. Independently reviewed internal data or data
from external sources including pooled data shall be used;
(a) the estimate of potential loss shall be robust to adverse
market movements relevant to the long-term risk profile (g) a rigorous and comprehensive stress-testing programme
of the institution's specific holdings. The data used to shall be in place.
represent return distributions shall reflect the longest
sample period for which data is available and meaningful
in representing the risk profile of the institution's specific
equity exposures. The data used shall be sufficient to Article 187
provide conservative, statistically reliable and robust loss
estimates that are not based purely on subjective or judg­ Risk management process and controls
mental considerations. The shock employed shall provide a
With regard to the development and use of internal models for
conservative estimate of potential losses over a relevant
own funds requirement purposes, institutions shall establish
long-term market or business cycle. The institution shall
policies, procedures, and controls to ensure the integrity of
combine empirical analysis of available data with
the model and modelling process. These policies, procedures,
adjustments based on a variety of factors in order to
and controls shall include the following:
attain model outputs that achieve appropriate realism and
conservatism. In constructing Value at Risk (VaR) models
estimating potential quarterly losses, institutions may use
quarterly data or convert shorter horizon period data to a
(a) full integration of the internal model into the overall
quarterly equivalent using an analytically appropriate
management information systems of the institution and in
method supported by empirical evidence and through a
the management of the non-trading book equity portfolio.
well-developed and documented thought process and
Internal models shall be fully integrated into the institution's
analysis. Such an approach shall be applied conservatively
risk management infrastructure if they are particularly used
and consistently over time. Where only limited relevant data
in measuring and assessing equity portfolio performance
is available the institution shall add appropriate margins of
including the risk-adjusted performance, allocating
conservatism;
economic capital to equity exposures and evaluating
overall capital adequacy and the investment management
process;
(b) the models used shall capture adequately all of the material
risks embodied in equity returns including both the general
market risk and specific risk exposure of the institution's
(b) established management systems, procedures, and control
equity portfolio. The internal models shall adequately
functions for ensuring the periodic and independent
explain historical price variation, capture both the
review of all elements of the internal modelling process,
magnitude and changes in the composition of potential
including approval of model revisions, vetting of model
concentrations, and be robust to adverse market environ­
inputs, and review of model results, such as direct verifi­
ments. The population of risk exposures represented in the
cation of risk computations. These reviews shall assess the
data used for estimation shall be closely matched to or at
accuracy, completeness, and appropriateness of model
least comparable with those of the institution's equity
inputs and results and focus on both finding and limiting
exposures;
potential errors associated with known weaknesses and
identifying unknown model weaknesses. Such reviews may
be conducted by an internal independent unit, or by an
independent external third party;
(c) the internal model shall be appropriate for the risk profile
and complexity of an institution's equity portfolio. Where
an institution has material holdings with values that are
highly non-linear in nature the internal models shall be
designed to capture appropriately the risks associated with (c) adequate systems and procedures for monitoring investment
such instruments; limits and the risk exposures of equity exposures;
(d) mapping of individual positions to proxies, market indices, (d) the units responsible for the design and application of the
and risk factors shall be plausible, intuitive, and concep­ model shall be functionally independent from the units
tually sound; responsible for managing individual investments;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/121
(e) parties responsible for any aspect of the modelling process S u b - S e c t i o n 5
shall be adequately qualified. Management shall allocate
I n t e r n a l g o v e r n a n c e a n d o v e r s i g h t
sufficient skilled and competent resources to the
modelling function. Article 189
Corporate Governance
Article 188 1. All material aspects of the rating and estimation processes
shall be approved by the institution's management body or a
Validation and documentation
designated committee thereof and senior management. These
Institutions shall have robust systems in place to validate the parties shall possess a general understanding of the rating
accuracy and consistency of their internal models and modelling systems of the institution and detailed comprehension of its
processes. All material elements of the internal models and the associated management reports.
modelling process and validation shall be documented.
2. Senior management shall be subject to the following
The validation and documentation of institutions' internal
requirements:
models and modelling processes shall be subject to the
following requirements:
(a) they shall provide notice to the management body or a
(a) institutions shall use the internal validation process to assess designated committee thereof of material changes or
the performance of its internal models and processes in a exceptions from established policies that will materially
consistent and meaningful way; impact the operations of the institution's rating systems;
(b) the methods and data used for quantitative validation shall
(b) they shall have a good understanding of the rating systems
be consistent through time. Changes in estimation and vali­
designs and operations;
dation methods and data both data sources and periods
covered shall be documented;
(c) they shall ensure, on an ongoing basis that the rating
(c) institutions shall regularly compare actual equity returns systems are operating properly.
computed using realised and unrealised gains and losses
with modelled estimates. Such comparisons shall make
use of historical data that cover as long a period as
possible. The institution shall document the methods and Senior management shall be regularly informed by the credit
data used in such comparisons. This analysis and documen­ risk control units about the performance of the rating process,
tation shall be updated at least annually; areas needing improvement, and the status of efforts to improve
previously identified deficiencies.
(d) institutions shall make use of other quantitative validation
tools and comparisons with external data sources. The
3. Internal ratings-based analysis of the institution's credit
analysis shall be based on data that are appropriate to the
risk profile shall be an essential part of the management
portfolio, are updated regularly, and cover a relevant obser­
reporting to these parties. Reporting shall include at least risk
vation period. Institutions' internal assessments of the
profile by grade, migration across grades, estimation of the
performance of their models shall be based on as long a
relevant parameters per grade, and comparison of realised
period as possible;
default rates, and to the extent that own estimates are used of
realised LGDs and realised conversion factors against expec­
tations and stress-test results. Reporting frequencies shall
(e) institutions shall have sound internal standards for depend on the significance and type of information and the
addressing situations where comparison of actual equity level of the recipient.
returns with the models estimates calls the validity of the
estimates or of the models as such into question. These
standards shall take account of business cycles and similar
systematic variability in equity returns. All adjustments Article 190
made to internal models in response to model reviews
Credit risk control
shall be documented and consistent with the institution's
model review standards;
1. The credit risk control unit shall be independent from the
personnel and management functions responsible for orig­
inating or renewing exposures and report directly to senior
(f) the internal model and the modelling process shall be docu­ management. The unit shall be responsible for the design or
mented, including the responsibilities of parties involved in selection, implementation, oversight and performance of the
the modelling, and the model approval and model review rating systems. It shall regularly produce and analyse reports
processes. on the output of the rating systems.
L 176/122 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. The areas of responsibility for the credit risk control unit Article 191
or units shall include:
Internal Audit
Internal audit or another comparable independent auditing unit
(a) testing and monitoring grades and pools;
shall review at least annually the institution's rating systems and
its operations, including the operations of the credit function
and the estimation of PDs, LGDs, ELs and conversion factors.
(b) production and analysis of summary reports from the insti­
Areas of review shall include adherence to all applicable require­
tution's rating systems;
ments.
(c) implementing procedures to verify that grade and pool defi­
nitions are consistently applied across departments and
CHAPTER 4
geographic areas;
Credit risk mitigation
(d) reviewing and documenting any changes to the rating S e c t i o n 1
process, including the reasons for the changes;
D e f i n i t i o n s a n d g e n e r a l r e q u i r e m e n t s
Article 192
(e) reviewing the rating criteria to evaluate if they remain
Definitions
predictive of risk. Changes to the rating process, criteria
or individual rating parameters shall be documented and For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall
retained; apply:
(f) active participation in the design or selection, implemen­
tation and validation of models used in the rating process; (1) 'lending institution' means the institution which has the
exposure in question;
(g) oversight and supervision of models used in the rating
process;
(2) 'secured lending transaction' means any transaction giving
rise to an exposure secured by collateral which does not
(h) ongoing review and alterations to models used in the rating
include a provision conferring upon the institution the right
process.
to receive margin at least daily;
3. Institutions using pooled data in accordance with
Article 179(2) may outsource the following tasks:
(3) 'capital market-driven transaction' means any transaction
giving rise to an exposure secured by collateral which
includes a provision conferring upon the institution the
(a) production of information relevant to testing and moni­
right to receive margin at least daily;
toring grades and pools;
(b) production of summary reports from the institution's rating
(4) 'underlying CIU' means a CIU in the shares or units of
systems;
which another CIU has invested.
(c) production of information relevant to review of the rating
criteria to evaluate if they remain predictive of risk;
Article 193
Principles for recognising the effect of credit risk
(d) documentation of changes to the rating process, criteria or mitigation techniques
individual rating parameters;
1. No exposure in respect of which an institution obtains
credit risk mitigation shall produce a higher risk-weighted
(e) production of information relevant to ongoing review and exposure amount or expected loss amount than an otherwise
alterations to models used in the rating process. identical exposure in respect of which an institution has no
credit risk mitigation.
4. Institutions making use of paragraph 3 shall ensure that
the competent authorities have access to all relevant
information from the third party that is necessary for 2. Where the risk-weighted exposure amount already takes
examining compliance with the requirements and that the account of credit protection under Chapter 2 or Chapter 3, as
competent authorities may perform on-site examinations to applicable, institutions shall not take into account that credit
the same extent as within the institution. protection in the calculations under this Chapter.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/123
3. Where the provisions in Sections 2 and 3 are met, insti­ 2. The lending institution shall take all appropriate steps to
tutions may amend the calculation of risk-weighted exposure ensure the effectiveness of the credit protection arrangement
amounts under the Standardised Approach and the calculation and to address the risks related to that arrangement.
of risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected loss amounts
under the IRB Approach in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 4, 5 and 6.
3. Institutions may recognise funded credit protection in the
calculation of the effect of credit risk mitigation only where the
assets relied upon for protection meet both of the following
4. Institutions shall treat cash, securities or commodities
conditions:
purchased, borrowed or received under a repurchase transaction
or securities or commodities lending or borrowing transaction
as collateral.
(a) they are included in the list of eligible assets set out in
Articles 197 to 200, as applicable;
5. Where an institution calculating risk-weighted exposure
amounts under the Standardised Approach has more than one
form of credit risk mitigation covering a single exposure it shall
(b) they are sufficiently liquid and their value over time suffi­
do both of the following:
ciently stable to provide appropriate certainty as to the
credit protection achieved having regard to the approach
used to calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts and to
(a) subdivide the exposure into parts covered by each type of the degree of recognition allowed.
credit risk mitigation tool;
4. Institutions may recognise funded credit protection in the
(b) calculate the risk-weighted exposure amount for each part
calculation of the effect of credit risk mitigation only where the
obtained in point (a) separately in accordance with the
lending institution has the right to liquidate or retain, in a
provisions of Chapter 2 and this Chapter.
timely manner, the assets from which the protection derives
in the event of the default, insolvency or bankruptcy — or
other credit event set out in the transaction documentation
6. When an institution calculating risk-weighted exposure — of the obligor and, where applicable, of the custodian
amounts under the Standardised Approach covers a single holding the collateral. The degree of correlation between the
exposure with credit protection provided by a single protection value of the assets relied upon for protection and the credit
provider and that protection has differing maturities, it shall do quality of the obligor shall not be too high.
both of the following:
5. In the case of unfunded credit protection, a protection
(a) subdivide the exposure into parts covered by each credit risk
provider shall qualify as an eligible protection provider only
mitigation tool;
where the protection provider is included in the list of
eligible protection providers set out in Article 201 or 202, as
applicable.
(b) calculate the risk-weighted exposure amount for each part
obtained in point (a) separately in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 2 and this Chapter.
6. In the case of unfunded credit protection, a protection
agreement shall qualify as an eligible protection agreement
only where it meets both the following conditions:
Article 194
Principles governing the eligibility of credit risk mitigation
techniques
(a) it is included in the list of eligible protection agreements set
1. The technique used to provide the credit protection out in Articles 203 and 204(1);
together with the actions and steps taken and procedures and
policies implemented by the lending institution shall be such as
to result in credit protection arrangements which are legally
(b) it is legally effective and enforceable in the relevant jurisdic­
effective and enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions.
tions, to provide appropriate certainty as to the credit
protection achieved having regard to the approach used to
calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts and to the degree
The lending institution shall provide, upon request of the of recognition allowed;
competent authority, the most recent version of the inde­
pendent, written and reasoned legal opinion or opinions that
it used to establish whether its credit protection arrangement or
arrangements meet the condition laid down in the first subpara­ (c) the protection provider meets the criteria laid down in
graph. paragraph 5.
L 176/124 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
7. Credit protection shall comply with the requirements set Article 196
out in Section 3, as applicable.
Master netting agreements covering repurchase
transactions or securities or commodities lending or
borrowing transactions or other capital market-driven
transactions
8. An institution shall be able to demonstrate to competent
authorities that it has adequate risk management processes to Institutions adopting the Financial Collateral Comprehensive
control those risks to which it may be exposed as a result of Method set out in Article 223 may take into account the
carrying out credit risk mitigation practices. effects of bilateral netting contracts covering repurchase trans­
actions, securities or commodities lending or borrowing trans­
actions, or other capital market-driven transactions with a
counterparty. Without prejudice to Article 299, the collateral
9. Notwithstanding the fact that credit risk mitigation has taken and securities or commodities borrowed within such
been taken into account for the purposes of calculating risk- agreements or transactions shall comply with the eligibility
weighted exposure amounts and, where applicable, expected requirements for collateral set out in Articles 197 and 198.
loss amounts, institutions shall continue to undertake a full
credit risk assessment of the underlying exposure and be in a
position to demonstrate the fulfilment of this requirement to
the competent authorities. In the case of repurchase transactions Article 197
and securities lending or commodities lending or borrowing
transactions the underlying exposure shall, for the purposes of Eligibility of collateral under all approaches and methods
this paragraph only, be deemed to be the net amount of the
1. Institutions may use the following items as eligible
exposure.
collateral under all approaches and methods:
10. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
(a) cash on deposit with, or cash assimilated instruments held
specify what constitutes sufficiently liquid assets and when asset
by, the lending institution;
values can be considered as sufficiently stable for the purpose of
paragraph 3.
(b) debt securities issued by central governments or central
banks, which securities have a credit assessment by an
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
ECAI or export credit agency recognised as eligible for the
the Commission by 30 September 2014.
purposes of Chapter 2 which has been determined by EBA
to be associated with credit quality step 4 or above under
the rules for the risk weighting of exposures to central
governments and central banks under Chapter 2;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(c) debt securities issued by institutions, which securities have a
credit assessment by an ECAI which has been determined by
EBA to be associated with credit quality step 3 or above
under the rules for the risk weighting of exposures to insti­
S e c t i o n 2
tutions under Chapter 2;
E l i g i b l e f o r m s o f c r e d i t r i s k m i t i g a t i o n
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
F u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n
(d) debt securities issued by other entities which securities have
a credit assessment by an ECAI which has been determined
Article 195 by EBA to be associated with credit quality step 3 or above
under the rules for the risk weighting of exposures to
On-balance sheet netting
corporates under Chapter 2;
An institution may use on-balance sheet netting of mutual
claims between itself and its counterparty as an eligible form
of credit risk mitigation.
(e) debt securities with a short-term credit assessment by an
ECAI which has been determined by EBA to be associated
with credit quality step 3 or above under the rules for the
Without prejudice to Article 196, eligibility is limited to risk weighting of short term exposures under Chapter 2;
reciprocal cash balances between the institution and the
counterparty. Institutions may amend risk-weighted exposure
amounts and, as relevant, expected loss amounts only for
loans and deposits that they have received themselves and (f) equities or convertible bonds that are included in a main
that are subject to an on-balance sheet netting agreement. index;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/125
(g) gold; (c) all other rated issues by the issuing institution of the same
seniority have a credit assessment by an ECAI which has
been determined by EBA to be associated with credit quality
(h) securitisation positions that are not re-securitisation posi­ step 3 or above under the rules for the risk weighting of
tions, which have an external credit assessment by an exposures to institutions or short term exposures under
ECAI which has been determined by EBA to be associated Chapter 2;
with credit quality step 3 or above under the rules for the
risk weighting of securitisation exposures under the
approach specified in Chapter 5, Section 3, Sub-section 3.
(d) the lending institution has no information to suggest that
the issue would justify a credit assessment below that
indicated in point (c);
2. For the purposes of point (b) of paragraph 1, 'debt
securities issued by central governments or central banks'
shall include all the following:
(e) the market liquidity of the instrument is sufficient for these
purposes.
(a) debt securities issued by regional governments or local auth­
orities, exposures to which are treated as exposures to the
central government in whose jurisdiction they are estab­
lished under Article 115(2);
5. Institutions may use units or shares in CIUs as eligible
collateral where all the following conditions are satisfied:
(b) debt securities issued by public sector entities which are
treated as exposures to central governments in accordance
with Article 116(4); (a) the units or shares have a daily public price quote;
(c) debt securities issued by multilateral development banks to
which a 0 % risk weight is assigned under Article 117(2); (b) the CIUs are limited to investing in instruments that are
eligible for recognition under paragraphs 1 and 2;
(d) debt securities issued by international organisations which
are assigned a 0 % risk weight under Article 118.
(c) the CIUs meet the conditions laid down in Article 132(3).
3. For the purposes of point (c) of paragraph 1, 'debt
securities issued by institutions' shall include all the following:
Where a CIU invests in shares or units of another CIU,
conditions laid down in points (a) to (c) of the first
subparagraph shall apply equally to any such underlying CIU.
(a) debt securities issued by regional governments or local auth­
orities other than those debt securities referred to in point
(a) of paragraph 2;
The use by a CIU of derivative instruments to hedge permitted
investments shall not prevent units or shares in that under­
(b) debt securities issued by public sector entities, exposures to taking from being eligible as collateral.
which are treated in accordance with Article 116(1) and (2);
(c) debt securities issued by multilateral development banks 6. For the purposes of paragraph 5, where a CIU ('the
other than those to which a 0 % risk weight is assigned original CIU') or any of its underlying CIUs are not limited to
under Article 117(2). investing in instruments that are eligible under paragraphs 1
and 4, institutions may use units or shares in that CIU as
collateral to an amount equal to the value of the eligible
assets held by that CIU under the assumption that that CIU
4. An institution may use debt securities that are issued by
or any of its underlying CIUs have invested in non-eligible
other institutions and that do not have a credit assessment by
assets to the maximum extent allowed under their respective
an ECAI as eligible collateral where those debt securities fulfil all
mandates.
the following criteria:
(a) they are listed on a recognised exchange; Where any underlying CIUs has underlying CIUs of its own,
institutions may use units or shares in the original CIU as
eligible collateral provided that they apply the methodology
(b) they qualify as senior debt; laid down in the first subparagraph
L 176/126 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Where non-eligible assets can have a negative value due to (b) units or shares in CIUs where both the following conditions
liabilities or contingent liabilities resulting from ownership, are met:
institutions shall do both of the following:
(i) the units or shares have a daily public price quote;
(a) calculate the total value of the non-eligible assets;
(ii) the CIU is limited to investing in instruments that are
eligible for recognition under Article 197(1) and (4) and
(b) where the amount obtained under point (a) is negative, the items mentioned in point (a) of this subparagraph.
subtract the absolute value of that amount from the total
value of the eligible assets.
In the case a CIU invests in units or shares of another CIU,
conditions (a) and (b) of this paragraph equally apply to any
such underlying CIU.
7. With regard to points (b) to (e) of paragraph 1, where a
security has two credit assessments by ECAIs, institutions shall
apply the less favourable assessment. Where a security has more
The use by a CIU of derivative instruments to hedge permitted
than two credit assessments by ECAIs, institutions shall apply
investments shall not prevent units or shares in that under­
the two most favourable assessments. Where the two most
taking from being eligible as collateral.
favourable credit assessments are different, institutions shall
apply the less favourable of the two.
2. Where the CIU or any underlying CIU are not limited to
investing in instruments that are eligible for recognition under
8. ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical Article 197(1) and (4) and the items mentioned in point (a) of
standards to specify the following: paragraph 1 of this Article, institutions may use units or shares
in that CIU as collateral to an amount equal to the value of the
eligible assets held by that CIU under the assumption that that
CIU or any of its underlying CIUs have invested in non-eligible
(a) the main indices referred to in point (f) of paragraph 1 of
assets to the maximum extent allowed under their respective
this Article, in point (a) of Article 198(1), in Article 224(1)
mandates.
and (4), and in point (e) of Article 299(2);
Where non-eligible assets can have a negative value due to
(b) the recognised exchanges referred to in point (a) of liabilities or contingent liabilities resulting from ownership,
paragraph 4 of this Article, in point (a) of Article 198(1), institutions shall do both of the following:
in Article 224(1) and (4), in point (e) of Article 299(2), in
point (k) of Article 400(2), in point (e) of Article 416(3), in
point (c) of Article 428(1), and in point 12 of Annex III in (a) calculate the total value of the non-eligible assets;
accordance with the conditions laid down in point (72) of
Article 4(1).
(b) where the amount obtained under point (a) is negative,
subtract the absolute value of that amount from the total
value of the eligible assets.
ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 31 December 2014.
Article 199
Additional eligibility for collateral under the IRB Approach
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph 1. In addition to the collateral referred to in Articles 197 and
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) 198, institutions that calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts
No 1095/2010. and expected loss amounts under the IRB Approach may also
use the following forms of collateral:
Article 198
(a) immovable property collateral in accordance with para­
Additional eligibility of collateral under the Financial graphs 2, 3 and 4;
Collateral Comprehensive Method
1. In addition to the collateral established in Article 197,
(b) receivables in accordance with paragraph 5;
where an institution uses the Financial Collateral Compre­
hensive Method set out in Article 223, that institution may
use the following items as eligible collateral:
(c) other physical collateral in accordance with paragraphs 6
and 8;
(a) equities or convertible bonds not included in a main index
but traded on a recognised exchange; (d) leasing in accordance with paragraph 7.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/127
2. Unless otherwise specified under Article 124(2), insti­ Member State has published evidence showing that a well-
tutions may use as eligible collateral residential property developed and long-established commercial property market is
which is or will be occupied or let by the owner, or the present in that territory with loss rates that do not exceed any
beneficial owner in the case of personal investment companies, of the following limits:
and commercial immovable property, including offices and
other commercial premises, where both the following
conditions are met:
(a) losses stemming from loans collateralised by commercial
immovable property up to 50 % of the market value or
60 % of the mortgage-lending-value do not exceed 0,3 %
of the outstanding loans collateralised by commercial
(a) the value of the property does not materially depend upon immovable property in any given year;
the credit quality of the obligor. Institutions may exclude
situations where purely macro-economic factors affect both
the value of the property and the performance of the
borrower from their determination of the materiality of (b) overall losses stemming from loans collateralised by
such dependence; commercial immovable property do not exceed 0,5 % of
the outstanding loans collateralised by commercial
immovable property in any given year.
(b) the risk of the borrower does not materially depend upon
the performance of the underlying property or project, but Where either of the conditions in points (a) and (b) of the first
on the underlying capacity of the borrower to repay the subparagraph is not met in a given year, institutions shall not
debt from other sources, and as a consequence the use the treatment set out in that subparagraph until both
repayment of the facility does not materially depend on conditions are satisfied in a subsequent year.
any cash flow generated by the underlying property
serving as collateral.
5. Institutions may use as eligible collateral amounts
receivable linked to a commercial transaction or transactions
with an original maturity of less than or equal to one year.
3. Institutions may derogate from point (b) of paragraph 2 Eligible receivables do not include those associated with secu­
for exposures secured by residential property situated within the ritisations, sub-participations or credit derivatives or amounts
territory of a Member State, where the competent authority of owed by affiliated parties.
that Member State has published evidence showing that a well-
developed and long-established residential property market is
present in that territory with loss rates that do not exceed
any of the following limits: 6. Competent authorities shall permit an institution to use as
eligible collateral physical collateral of a type other than those
indicated in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 where all the following
conditions are met:
(a) losses stemming from loans collateralised by residential
property up to 80 % of the market value or 80 % of the
mortgage-lending-value, unless otherwise provided under (a) there are liquid markets, evidenced by frequent transactions
Article 124(2), do not exceed 0,3 % of the outstanding taking into account the asset type, for the disposal of the
loans collateralised by residential property in any given year; collateral in an expeditious and economically efficient
manner. Institutions shall carry out the assessment of this
condition periodically and where information indicates
material changes in the market;
(b) overall losses stemming from loans collateralised by resi­
dential property do not exceed 0,5 % of the outstanding
loans collateralised by residential property in any given year.
(b) there are well-established, publicly available market prices
for the collateral. Institutions may consider market prices
as well-established where they come from reliable sources of
information such as public indices and reflect the price of
Where either of the conditions in points (a) and (b) of the first the transactions under normal conditions. Institutions may
subparagraph is not met in a given year, institutions shall not consider market prices as publicly available, where these
use the treatment set out in that subparagraph until both prices are disclosed, easily accessible, and obtainable
conditions are satisfied in a subsequent year. regularly and without any undue administrative or
financial burden;
4. Institutions may derogate from point (b) of paragraph 2 (c) the institution analyses the market prices, time and costs
for commercial immovable property situated within the territory required to realise the collateral and the realised proceeds
of a Member State, where the competent authority of that from the collateral;
L 176/128 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) the institution demonstrates that the realised proceeds from (e) public sector entities, claims on which are treated in
the collateral are not below 70 % of the collateral value in accordance with Article 116;
more than 10 % of all liquidations for a given type of
collateral. Where there is material volatility in the market
prices, the institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the (f) institutions, and financial institutions for which exposures
competent authorities that its valuation of the collateral is to the financial institution are treated as exposures to insti­
sufficiently conservative. tutions in accordance with Article 119(5);
Institutions shall document the fulfilment of the conditions
(g) other corporate entities, including parent, subsidiary and
specified in points (a) to (d) of the first subparagraph and
affiliate corporate entities of the institution, where either
those specified in Article 210.
of the following conditions is met:
7. Subject to the provisions of Article 230(2), where the
(i) those other corporate entities have a credit assessment
requirements set out in Article 211 are met, exposures arising
by an ECAI;
from transactions whereby an institution leases property to a
third party may be treated in the same manner as loans collat­
eralised by the type of property leased.
(ii) in the case of institutions calculating risk-weighted
exposure amounts and expected loss amounts under
8. EBA shall disclose a list of types of physical collateral for the IRB Approach, those other corporate entities do
which institutions can assume that the conditions referred to in not have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI
points (a) and (b) of paragraph 6 are met. and are internally rated by the institution;
Article 200 (h) central counterparties.
Other funded credit protection
Institutions may use the following other funded credit 2. Where institutions calculate risk-weighted exposure
protection as eligible collateral: amounts and expected loss amounts under the IRB Approach,
to be eligible as a provider of unfunded credit protection a
guarantor shall be internally rated by the institution in
(a) cash on deposit with, or cash assimilated instruments held accordance with the provisions of Section 6 of Chapter 3.
by, a third party institution in a non-custodial arrangement
and pledged to the lending institution;
Competent authorities shall publish and maintain the list of
those financial institutions that are eligible providers of
(b) life insurance policies pledged to the lending institution;
unfunded credit protection under point (f) of paragraph 1, or
the guiding criteria for identifying such eligible providers of
unfunded credit protection, together with a description of the
(c) instruments issued by third party institutions which will be
applicable prudential requirements, and share their list with
repurchased by that institution on request.
other competent authorities in accordance with Article 117 of
Directive 2013/36/EU.
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
U n f u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n Article 202
Article 201 Eligibility of protection providers under the IRB Approach
which qualify for the treatment set out in Article 153(3)
Eligibility of protection providers under all approaches
An institution may use institutions, insurance and reinsurance
1. Institutions may use the following parties as eligible
undertakings and export credit agencies as eligible providers of
providers of unfunded credit protection:
unfunded credit protection which qualify for the treatment set
out in Article 153(3) where they meet all the following
conditions:
(a) central governments and central banks;
(b) regional governments or local authorities; (a) they have sufficient expertise in providing unfunded credit
protection;
(c) multilateral development banks;
(b) they are regulated in a manner equivalent to the rules laid
down in this Regulation, or had, at the time the credit
(d) international organisations exposures to which a 0 % risk protection was provided, a credit assessment by a
weight under Article 117 is assigned; recognised ECAI which had been determined by EBA to
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/129
be associated with credit quality step 3, or above, in Where an internal hedge has been conducted in accordance
accordance with the rules for the risk weighting of with the first subparagraph and the requirements in this
exposures to corporates set out in Chapter 2; Chapter have been met, institutions shall apply the rules set
out in Sections 4 to 6 for the calculation of risk-weighted
exposure amounts and expected loss amounts where they
(c) they had, at the time the credit protection was provided, or acquire unfunded credit protection.
for any period of time thereafter, an internal rating with a
PD equivalent to or lower than that associated with credit
quality step 2 or above in accordance with the rules for the
S e c t i o n 3
risk weighting of exposures to corporates set out in
Chapter 2; R e q u i r e m e n t s
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
(d) they have an internal rating with a PD equivalent to or
F u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n
lower than that associated with credit quality step 3 or
above in accordance with the rules for the risk weighting Article 205
of exposures to corporates set out in Chapter 2.
Requirements for on-balance sheet netting agreements
other than master netting agreements referred to in
Article 206
For the purpose of this Article, credit protection provided by
export credit agencies shall not benefit from any explicit central On-balance sheet netting agreements other than master netting
government counter-guarantee. agreements referred to in Article 206 shall qualify as an eligible
form of credit risk mitigation where all the following conditions
are met:
Article 203
Eligibility of guarantees as unfunded credit protection
(a) those agreements are legally effective and enforceable in all
Institutions may use guarantees as eligible unfunded credit
relevant jurisdictions, including in the event of the
protection.
insolvency or bankruptcy of a counterparty;
S u b - S e c t i o n 3
(b) institutions are able to determine at any time the assets and
T y p e s o f d e r i v a t i v e s
liabilities that are subject to those agreements;
Article 204
Eligible types of credit derivatives
(c) institutions monitor and control the risks associated with
1. Institutions may use the following types of credit deriva­ the termination of the credit protection on an ongoing
tives, and instruments that may be composed of such credit basis;
derivatives or that are economically effectively similar, as
eligible credit protection:
(d) institutions monitor and control the relevant exposures on a
(a) credit default swaps; net basis and do so on an ongoing basis.
(b) total return swaps;
Article 206
Requirements for master netting agreements covering
(c) credit linked notes to the extent of their cash funding. repurchase transactions or securities or commodities
lending or borrowing transactions or other capital
market driven transactions
Where an institution buys credit protection through a total
Master netting agreements covering repurchase transactions,
return swap and records the net payments received on the
securities or commodities lending or borrowing transactions
swap as net income, but does not record the offsetting deterio­
or other capital market driven transactions shall qualify as an
ration in the value of the asset that is protected either through
eligible form of credit risk mitigation where the collateral
reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves, that credit
provided under those agreements meets all the requirements
protection does not qualify as eligible credit protection.
laid down in Article 207(2) to (4) and where all the
following conditions are met:
2. Where an institution conducts an internal hedge using a
credit derivative, in order for the credit protection to qualify as
eligible credit protection for the purposes of this Chapter, the (a) they are legally effective and enforceable in all relevant
credit risk transferred to the trading book shall be transferred jurisdictions, including in the event of the bankruptcy or
out to a third party or parties. insolvency of the counterparty;
L 176/130 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) they give the non-defaulting party the right to terminate and failed or reduced credit protection, valuation risks, risks
close-out in a timely manner all transactions under the associated with the termination of the credit protection,
agreement upon the event of default, including in the concentration risk arising from the use of collateral and
event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty; the interaction with the institution's overall risk profile;
(c) they provide for the netting of gains and losses on trans­ (c) they shall have in place documented policies and practices
actions closed out under an agreement so that a single net concerning the types and amounts of collateral accepted;
amount is owed by one party to the other.
(d) they shall calculate the market value of the collateral, and
revalue it accordingly, at least once every six months and
Article 207
whenever they have reason to believe that a significant
Requirements for financial collateral decrease in the market value of the collateral has occurred;
1. Under all approaches and methods, financial collateral and
gold shall qualify as eligible collateral where all the requirements
laid down in paragraphs 2 to 4 are met. (e) where the collateral is held by a third party, they shall take
reasonable steps to ensure that the third party segregates the
collateral from its own assets;
2. The credit quality of the obligor and the value of the
collateral shall not have a material positive correlation. Where
(f) they shall ensure that they devote sufficient resources to the
the value of the collateral is reduced significantly, this shall not
orderly operation of margin agreements with OTC
alone imply a significant deterioration of the credit quality of
derivatives and securities-financing counterparties, as
the obligor. Where the credit quality of the obligor becomes
measured by the timeliness and accuracy of their outgoing
critical, this shall not alone imply a significant reduction in the
margin calls and response time to incoming margin calls;
value of the collateral.
(g) they shall have in place collateral management policies to
Securities issued by the obligor, or any related group entity,
control, monitor and report the following:
shall not qualify as eligible collateral. This notwithstanding,
the obligor's own issues of covered bonds falling within the
terms of Article 129 qualify as eligible collateral when they
are posted as collateral for a repurchase transaction, provided (i) the risks to which margin agreements expose them;
that they comply with the condition set out in the first subpara­
graph.
(ii) the concentration risk to particular types of collateral
assets;
3. Institutions shall fulfil any contractual and statutory
requirements in respect of, and take all steps necessary to
ensure, the enforceability of the collateral arrangements under (iii) the reuse of collateral including the potential liquidity
the law applicable to their interest in the collateral. shortfalls resulting from the reuse of collateral received
from counterparties;
Institutions shall have conducted sufficient legal review
confirming the enforceability of the collateral arrangements in (iv) the surrender of rights on collateral posted to counter­
all relevant jurisdictions. They shall re-conduct such review as parties.
necessary to ensure continuing enforceability.
5. In addition to meeting all the requirements set out in
paragraphs 2 to 4, for financial collateral to qualify as eligible
4. Institutions shall fulfil all the following operational
collateral under the Financial Collateral Simple Method the
requirements:
residual maturity of the protection shall be at least as long as
the residual maturity of the exposure.
(a) they shall properly document the collateral arrangements
and have in place clear and robust procedures for the
Article 208
timely liquidation of collateral;
Requirements for immovable property collateral
1. Immovable property shall qualify as eligible collateral only
(b) they shall use robust procedures and processes to control where all the requirements laid down in paragraphs 2 to 5 are
risks arising from the use of collateral, including risks of met.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/131
2. The following requirements on legal certainly shall be met: (a) the legal mechanism by which the collateral is provided to a
lending institution shall be robust and effective and ensure
that that institution has clear rights over the collateral
(a) a mortgage or charge is enforceable in all jurisdictions including the right to the proceeds from the sale of the
which are relevant at the time of the conclusion of the collateral;
credit agreement and shall be properly filed on a timely
basis;
(b) institutions shall take all steps necessary to fulfil local
requirements in respect of the enforceability of security
(b) all legal requirements for establishing the pledge have been
interest. Lending institutions shall have a first priority
fulfilled;
claim over the collateral although such claims may still be
subject to the claims of preferential creditors provided for in
legislative provisions;
(c) the protection agreement and the legal process under­
pinning it enable the institution to realise the value of the
protection within a reasonable timeframe.
(c) institutions shall have conducted sufficient legal review
confirming the enforceability of the collateral arrangements
3. The following requirements on monitoring of property in all relevant jurisdictions;
values and on property valuation shall be met:
(d) institutions shall properly document their collateral
(a) institutions monitor the value of the property on a frequent
arrangements and shall have in place clear and robust
basis and at a minimum once every year for commercial
procedures for the timely collection of collateral;
immovable property and once every three years for resi­
dential real estate. Institutions carry out more frequent
monitoring where the market is subject to significant
changes in conditions; (e) institutions shall have in place procedures that ensure that
any legal conditions required for declaring the default of a
borrower and timely collection of collateral are observed;
(b) the property valuation is reviewed when information
available to institutions indicates that the value of the
property may have declined materially relative to general
market prices and that review is carried out by a valuer (f) in the event of a borrower's financial distress or default,
who possesses the necessary qualifications, ability and institutions shall have legal authority to sell or assign the
experience to execute a valuation and who is independent receivables to other parties without consent of the
from the credit decision process. For loans exceeding EUR 3 receivables obligors.
million or 5 % of the own funds of an institution, the
property valuation shall be reviewed by such valuer at
least every three years.
3. The following requirements on risk management shall be
met:
Institutions may use statistical methods to monitor the value of
the property and to identify property that needs revaluation.
(a) an institution shall have in place a sound process for deter­
mining the credit risk associated with the receivables. Such a
4. Institutions shall clearly document the types of residential process shall include analyses of a borrower's business and
and commercial immovable property they accept and their industry and the types of customers with whom that
lending policies in this regard. borrower does business. Where the institution relies on its
borrowers to ascertain the credit risk of the customers, the
institution shall review the borrowers' credit practices to
5. Institutions shall have in place procedures to monitor that ascertain their soundness and credibility;
the property taken as credit protection is adequately insured
against the risk of damage.
(b) the difference between the amount of the exposure and the
value of the receivables shall reflect all appropriate factors,
Article 209
including the cost of collection, concentration within the
receivables pool pledged by an individual borrower, and
Requirements for receivables
potential concentration risk within the institution's total
1. Receivables shall qualify as eligible collateral where all the exposures beyond that controlled by the institution's
requirements laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 are met. general methodology. Institutions shall maintain a
continuous monitoring process appropriate to the receiv­
ables. They shall also review, on a regular basis, compliance
2. The following requirements on legal certainty shall be with loan covenants, environmental restrictions, and other
met: legal requirements;
L 176/132 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) receivables pledged by a borrower shall be diversified and (i) appropriate collateral requirements relative to the
not be unduly correlated with that borrower. Where there is exposure amount;
material positive correlation, institutions shall take into
account the attendant risks in the setting of margins for
the collateral pool as a whole; (ii) the ability to liquidate the collateral readily;
(iii) the ability to establish objectively a price or market
(d) institutions shall not use receivables from affiliates of a
value;
borrower, including subsidiaries and employees, as eligible
credit protection;
(iv) the frequency with which the value can readily be
obtained, including a professional appraisal or valu­
(e) institution shall have in place a documented process for ation;
collecting receivable payments in distressed situations. Insti­
tutions shall have in place the requisite facilities for
collection even when they normally rely on their (v) the volatility or a proxy of the volatility of the value of
borrowers for collections. the collateral.
(g) when conducting valuation and revaluation, institutions
Article 210
shall take fully into account any deterioration or obsol­
Requirements for other physical collateral escence of the collateral, paying particular attention to the
effects of the passage of time on fashion- or date-sensitive
Physical collateral other than immovable property collateral
collateral;
shall qualify as eligible collateral under the IRB Approach
where all the following conditions are met:
(h) institutions shall have the right to physically inspect the
collateral. They shall also have in place policies and
(a) the collateral arrangement under which the physical procedures addressing their exercise of the right to
collateral is provided to an institution shall be legally physical inspection;
effective and enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions and
shall enable that institution to realise the value of the
collateral within a reasonable timeframe; (i) the collateral taken as protection shall be adequately insured
against the risk of damage and institutions shall have in
place procedures to monitor this.
(b) with the sole exception of permissible first priority claims
referred to in Article 209(2)(b), only first liens on, or
Article 211
charges over, collateral shall qualify as eligible collateral
and an institution shall have priority over all other Requirements for treating lease exposures as collateralised
lenders to the realised proceeds of the collateral;
Institutions shall treat exposures arising from leasing trans­
actions as collateralised by the type of property leased, where
all the following conditions are met:
(c) institutions shall monitor the value of the collateral on a
frequent basis and at least once every year. Institutions shall
carry out more frequent monitoring where the market is
(a) the conditions set out in Article 208 or 210, as applicable,
subject to significant changes in conditions;
for the type of property leased to qualify as eligible
collateral are met;
(d) the loan agreement shall include detailed descriptions of the
collateral as well as detailed specifications of the manner (b) the lessor has in place robust risk management with respect
and frequency of revaluation; to the use to which the leased asset is put, its location, its
age and the planned duration of its use, including appro­
priate monitoring of the value of the security;
(e) institutions shall clearly document in internal credit policies
and procedures available for examination the types of
(c) the lessor has legal ownership of the asset and is able to
physical collateral they accept and the policies and
exercise its rights as owner in a timely fashion;
practices they have in place in respect of the appropriate
amount of each type of collateral relative to the exposure
amount;
(d) where this has not already been ascertained in calculating
the LGD level, the difference between the value of the
unamortised amount and the market value of the security
(f) institutions' credit policies with regard to the transaction is not so large as to overstate the credit risk mitigation
structure shall address the following: attributed to the leased assets.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/133
Article 212 (h) the surrender value is to be paid by the company providing
the life insurance in a timely manner upon request;
Requirements for other funded credit protection
1. Cash on deposit with, or cash assimilated instruments held
by, a third party institution shall be eligible for the treatment set (i) the surrender value shall not be requested without the prior
out in Article 232(1), where all the following conditions are consent of the institution;
met:
(j) the company providing the life insurance is subject to
(a) the borrower's claim against the third party institution is Directive 2009/138/EC or is subject to supervision by a
openly pledged or assigned to the lending institution and competent authority of a third country which applies super­
such pledge or assignment is legally effective and visory and regulatory arrangements at least equivalent to
enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions and is unconditional those applied in the Union.
and irrevocable;
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
(b) the third party institution is notified of the pledge or
assignment; U n f u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n a n d c r e d i t l i n k e d
n o t e s
Article 213
(c) as a result of the notification, the third party institution is
able to make payments solely to the lending institution or Requirements common to guarantees and credit
to other parties only with the lending institution's prior derivatives
consent.
1. Subject to Article 214(1), credit protection deriving from
a guarantee or credit derivative shall qualify as eligible unfunded
credit protection where all the following conditions are met:
2. Life insurance policies pledged to the lending institution
shall qualify as eligible collateral where all the following
conditions are met:
(a) the credit protection is direct;
(a) the life insurance policy is openly pledged or assigned to the
(b) the extent of the credit protection is clearly defined and
lending institution;
incontrovertible;
(b) the company providing the life insurance is notified of the
(c) the credit protection contract does not contain any clause,
pledge or assignment and, as a result of the notification,
the fulfilment of which is outside the direct control of the
may not pay amounts payable under the contract without
lender, that:
the prior consent of the lending institution;
(i) would allow the protection provider to cancel the
(c) the lending institution has the right to cancel the policy and
protection unilaterally;
receive the surrender value in the event of the default of the
borrower;
(ii) would increase the effective cost of protection as a
(d) the lending institution is informed of any non-payments result of a deterioration in the credit quality of the
under the policy by the policy-holder; protected exposure;
(e) the credit protection is provided for the maturity of the (iii) could prevent the protection provider from being
loan. Where this is not possible because the insurance rela­ obliged to pay out in a timely manner in the event
tionship ends before the loan relationship expires, the insti­ that the original obligor fails to make any payments
tution shall ensure that the amount deriving from the due, or when the leasing contract has expired for the
insurance contract serves the institution as security until purposes of recognising guaranteed residual value under
the end of the duration of the credit agreement; Articles 134(7) and 166(4);
(f) the pledge or assignment is legally effective and enforceable (iv) could allow the maturity of the credit protection to be
in all jurisdictions which are relevant at the time of the reduced by the protection provider;
conclusion of the credit agreement;
(d) the credit protection contract is legally effective and
(g) the surrender value is declared by the company providing enforceable in all jurisdictions which are relevant at the
the life insurance and is non-reducible; time of the conclusion of the credit agreement.
L 176/134 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. An institution shall demonstrate to competent authorities (e) a public sector entity, claims on which are treated in
that it has in place systems to manage potential concentration accordance with Article 116(1) and (2).
of risk arising from its use of guarantees and credit derivatives.
An institution shall be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the competent authorities how its strategy in respect of its use 3. Institutions shall apply the treatment set out in paragraph
of credit derivatives and guarantees interacts with its 1 also to an exposure which is not counter-guaranteed by any
management of its overall risk profile. entity listed in paragraph 2 where that exposure's counter-
guarantee is in turn directly guaranteed by one of those
entities and the conditions listed in paragraph 1 are satisfied.
3. An institution shall fulfil any contractual and statutory
requirements in respect of, and take all steps necessary to
ensure, the enforceability of its unfunded credit protection Article 215
under the law applicable to its interest in the credit protection.
Additional requirements for guarantees
1. Guarantees shall qualify as eligible unfunded credit
An institution shall have conducted sufficient legal review protection where all the conditions in Article 213 and all the
confirming the enforceability of the unfunded credit protection following conditions are met:
in all relevant jurisdictions. It shall repeat such review as
necessary to ensure continuing enforceability.
(a) on the qualifying default of or non-payment by the counter­
party, the lending institution has the right to pursue, in a
Article 214 timely manner, the guarantor for any monies due under the
claim in respect of which the protection is provided and the
Sovereign and other public sector counter-guarantees
payment by the guarantor shall not be subject to the
1. Institutions may treat the exposures referred to in lending institution first having to pursue the obligor;
paragraph 2 as protected by a guarantee provided by the
entities listed in that paragraph, provided all the following
conditions are satisfied: In the case of unfunded credit protection covering resi­
dential mortgage loans, the requirements in
Article 213(1)(c)(iii) and in the first subparagraph of this
point have only to be satisfied within 24 months;
(a) the counter-guarantee covers all credit risk elements of the
claim;
(b) the guarantee is an explicitly documented obligation
assumed by the guarantor;
(b) both the original guarantee and the counter-guarantee meet
the requirements for guarantees set out in Articles 213 and
215(1), except that the counter-guarantee need not be
(c) either of the following conditions is met:
direct;
(i) the guarantee covers all types of payments the obligor is
(c) the cover is robust and nothing in the historical evidence
expected to make in respect of the claim;
suggests that the coverage of the counter-guarantee is less
than effectively equivalent to that of a direct guarantee by
the entity in question.
(ii) where certain types of payment are excluded from the
guarantee, the lending institution has adjusted the value
of the guarantee to reflect the limited coverage.
2. The treatment set out in paragraph 1 shall apply to
exposures protected by a guarantee which is counter-guaranteed
by any of the following entities:
2. In the case of guarantees provided in the context of
mutual guarantee schemes or provided by or counter-guar­
anteed by entities listed in Article 214(2), the requirements in
(a) a central government or central bank;
point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered to be
satisfied where either of the following conditions is met:
(b) a regional government or local authority;
(a) the lending institution has the right to obtain in a timely
manner a provisional payment by the guarantor that meets
(c) a public sector entity, claims on which are treated as claims both the following conditions:
on the central government in accordance with
Article 116(4);
(i) it represents a robust estimate of the amount of the loss,
including losses resulting from the non-payment of
(d) a multilateral development bank or an international organi­ interest and other types of payment which the
sation, to which a 0 % risk weight is assigned under or by borrower is obliged to make, that the lending institution
virtue of Articles 117(2) and 118 respectively; is likely to incur;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/135
(ii) it is proportional to the coverage of the guarantee; (f) the protection buyer has the right or ability to inform the
protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event.
(b) the lending institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the competent authorities that the effects of the guarantee,
Where the credit events do not include restructuring of the
which shall also cover losses resulting from the non-
underlying obligation as described in point (a)(iii), the credit
payment of interest and other types of payments which
protection may nonetheless be eligible subject to a reduction
the borrower is obliged to make, justify such treatment.
in the value as specified in Article 233(2);
Article 216
2. A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the
Additional requirements for credit derivatives
reference obligation under the credit derivative or between the
1. Credit derivative shall qualify as eligible unfunded credit underlying obligation and the obligation used for purposes of
protection where all the conditions in Article 213 and all the determining whether a credit event has occurred is permissible
following conditions are met: only where both the following conditions are met:
(a) the credit events specified in the credit derivative contract
(a) the reference obligation or the obligation used for the
include:
purpose of determining whether a credit event has
occurred, as the case may be, ranks pari passu with or is
junior to the underlying obligation;
(i) the failure to pay the amounts due under the terms of
the underlying obligation that are in effect at the time
of such failure, with a grace period that is equal to or
shorter than the grace period in the underlying (b) the underlying obligation and the reference obligation or the
obligation; obligation used for the purpose of determining whether a
credit event has occurred, as the case may be, share the
same obligor and legally enforceable cross-default or
(ii) the bankruptcy, insolvency or inability of the obligor to cross-acceleration clauses are in place.
pay its debts, or its failure or admission in writing of its
inability generally to pay its debts as they become due,
and analogous events;
Article 217
Requirements to qualify for the treatment set out in
(iii) the restructuring of the underlying obligation involving Article 153(3)
forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or
1. To be eligible for the treatment set out in Article 153(3),
fees that results in a credit loss event;
credit protection deriving from a guarantee or credit derivative
shall meet the following conditions:
(b) where credit derivatives allow for cash settlement:
(a) the underlying obligation is to one of the following
(i) institutions have in place a robust valuation process in exposures:
order to estimate loss reliably;
(i) a corporate exposure as referred to in Article 147,
(ii) there is a clearly specified period for obtaining post-
excluding insurance and reinsurance undertakings;
credit-event valuations of the underlying obligation;
(c) where the protection purchaser's right and ability to transfer (ii) an exposure to a regional government, local authority
the underlying obligation to the protection provider is or public sector entity which is not treated as an
required for settlement, the terms of the underlying exposure to a central government or a central bank
obligation provide that any required consent to such in accordance with Article 147;
transfer shall not be unreasonably withheld;
(iii) an exposure to an SME, classified as a retail exposure in
(d) the identity of the parties responsible for determining
accordance with Article 147(5);
whether a credit event has occurred is clearly defined;
(e) the determination of the credit event is not the sole respon­ (b) the underlying obligors are not members of the same group
sibility of the protection provider; as the protection provider;
L 176/136 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) the exposure is hedged by one of the following instruments: 2. For the purpose of point (c)(ii) of paragraph 1, institutions
shall apply the treatment set out in Article 153(3) to the asset
within the basket with the lowest risk-weighted exposure
(i) single-name unfunded credit derivatives or single-name amount.
guarantees;
3. For the purpose of point (c)(iii) of paragraph 1, the
protection obtained is only eligible for consideration under
(ii) first-to-default basket products; this framework where eligible (n-1)th default protection has
also been obtained or where (n-1) of the assets within the
basket has or have already defaulted. Where this is the case,
institutions shall apply the treatment set out in Article 153(3)
(iii) nth-to-default basket products;
to the asset within the basket with the lowest risk-weighted
exposure amount.
(d) the credit protection meets the requirements set out in
Articles 213, 215 and 216, as applicable; S e c t i o n 4
C a l c u l a t i n g t h e e f f e c t s o f c r e d i t r i s k
m i t i g a t i o n
(e) the risk weight that is associated with the exposure prior to
the application of the treatment set out in Article 153(3), S u b - S e c t i o n 1
does not already factor in any aspect of the credit
F u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n
protection;
Article 218
Credit linked notes
(f) an institution has the right and expectation to receive
payment from the protection provider without having to Investments in credit linked notes issued by the lending insti­
take legal action in order to pursue the counterparty for tution may be treated as cash collateral for the purpose of
payment. To the extent possible, the institution shall take calculating the effect of funded credit protection in accordance
steps to satisfy itself that the protection provider is willing with this Sub-section, provided that the credit default swap
to pay promptly should a credit event occur; embedded in the credit linked note qualifies as eligible
unfunded credit protection. For the purpose of determining
whether the credit default swap embedded in a credit linked
(g) the purchased credit protection absorbs all credit losses note qualifies as eligible unfunded credit protection, the insti­
incurred on the hedged portion of an exposure that arise tution may consider the condition in point (c) of Article 194(6)
due to the occurrence of credit events outlined in the to be met.
contract;
Article 219
On-balance sheet netting
(h) where the payout structure of the credit protection provides
for physical settlement, there is legal certainty with respect Loans to and deposits with the lending institution subject to on-
to the deliverability of a loan, bond, or contingent liability; balance sheet netting are to be treated by that institution as cash
collateral for the purpose of calculating the effect of funded
credit protection for those loans and deposits of the lending
(i) where an institution intends to deliver an obligation other institution subject to on-balance sheet netting which are
than the underlying exposure, it shall ensure that the denominated in the same currency.
deliverable obligation is sufficiently liquid so that the insti­
tution would have the ability to purchase it for delivery in Article 220
accordance with the contract;
Using the Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach or
the Own Estimates Volatility Adjustments Approach for
master netting agreements
(j) the terms and conditions of credit protection arrangements
are legally confirmed in writing by both the protection 1. When institutions calculate the 'fully adjusted exposure
provider and the institution; value' (E*) for the exposures subject to an eligible master
netting agreement covering repurchase transactions or securities
or commodities lending or borrowing transactions or other
(k) institutions have in place a process to detect excessive capital market-driven transactions, they shall calculate the vola­
correlation between the creditworthiness of a protection tility adjustments that they need to apply either by using the
provider and the obligor of the underlying exposure due Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach or the Own
to their performance being dependent on common factors Estimates Volatility Adjustments Approach ('Own Estimates
beyond the systematic risk factor; Approach') as set out in Articles 223 to 226 for the Financial
Collateral Comprehensive Method.
(l) in the case of protection against dilution risk, the seller of The use of the Own Estimates Approach shall be subject to the
purchased receivables is not a member of the same group as same conditions and requirements as apply under the Financial
the protection provider. Collateral Comprehensive Method.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/137
2. For the purpose of calculating E*, institutions shall: netting agreement and the amount of cash in that
currency lent or transferred under that agreement;
(a) calculate the net position in each group of securities or in
each type of commodity by subtracting the amount in point
(ii) the sum of the total value of securities denominated in
(ii) from the amount in point (i):
that currency borrowed, purchased or received under the
master netting agreement and the amount of cash in
that currency borrowed or received under that
(i) the total value of a group of securities or of agreement;
commodities of the same type lent, sold or provided
under the master netting agreement;
(c) apply the volatility adjustment appropriate to a given group
of securities or to a cash position to the absolute value of
(ii) the total value of a group of securities or of
the positive or negative net position in the securities in that
commodities of the same type borrowed, purchased or
group;
received under the master netting agreement;
(d) apply the foreign exchange risk (fx) volatility adjustment to
(b) calculate the net position in each currency, other than the
the net positive or negative position in each currency other
settlement currency of the master netting agreement, by
than the settlement currency of the master netting
subtracting the amount in point (ii) from the amount in
agreement.
point (i):
(i) the sum of the total value of securities denominated in 3. Institutions shall calculate E* according to the following
that currency lent, sold or provided under the master formula:
Eä
¼
max Õ0,
8 i
E
i
–
i
C
i
9
þ
j
jEs
j
ec
j
· H s
j
ec
þ
k
jEf
k
x
j
· H f kx
Ø
>>:
X X
>>;
X X
where: H s
j
ec = the volatility adjustment appropriate to a particular
group of securities j;
E
i
= the exposure value for each separate exposure i under
the agreement that would apply in the absence of the H f kx = the foreign exchange volatility adjustment for
credit protection, where institutions calculate risk- currency k.
weighted exposure amounts under the Standardised
Approach or where they calculate the risk-weighted
exposure amounts and expected loss amounts under
the IRB Approach;
4. For the purpose of calculating risk-weighted exposure
amounts and expected loss amounts for repurchase transactions
or securities or commodities lending or borrowing transactions
or other capital market-driven transactions covered by master
C i = the value of securities in each group or commodities of netting agreements, institutions shall use E* as calculated under
the same type borrowed, purchased or received or the paragraph 3 as the exposure value of the exposure to the
cash borrowed or received in respect of each exposure i; counterparty arising from the transactions subject to the
master netting agreement for the purposes of Article 113
under the Standardised Approach or Chapter 3 under the IRB
Approach.
Es
j
ec = the net position (positive or negative) in a given group
of securities j;
5. For the purposes of paragraphs 2 and 3, 'group of secur­
ities' means securities which are issued by the same entity, have
Ef
k
x = the net position (positive or negative) in a given the same issue date, the same maturity, are subject to the same
currency k other than the settlement currency of the terms and conditions, and are subject to the same liquidation
agreement as calculated under point (b) of paragraph 2; periods as indicated in Articles 224 and 225, as applicable.
L 176/138 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 221 (ii) it is responsible for designing and implementing the
institution's risk-management system;
Using the Internal Models Approach for Master netting
agreements
1. Subject to permission of competent authorities, insti­
tutions may, as an alternative to using the Supervisory Volatility (iii) it produces and analyses daily reports on the output of
Adjustments Approach or the Own Estimates Approach in the risk-measurement model and on the appropriate
calculating the fully adjusted exposure value (E*) resulting measures to be taken in terms of position limits;
from the application of an eligible master netting agreement
covering repurchase transactions, securities or commodities
lending or borrowing transactions, or other capital market
driven transactions other than derivative transactions, use an (c) the daily reports produced by the risk-control unit are
internal models approach which takes into account correlation reviewed by a level of management with sufficient
effects between security positions subject to the master netting authority to enforce reductions of positions taken and of
agreement as well as the liquidity of the instruments concerned. overall risk exposure;
2. Subject to the permission of the competent authorities,
institutions may also use their internal models for margin (d) the institution has sufficient staff skilled in the use of soph­
lending transactions, where the transactions are covered under isticated models in the risk control unit;
a bilateral master netting agreement that meets the requirements
set out in Chapter 6, Section 7.
(e) the institution has established procedures for monitoring
3. An institution may choose to use an internal models and ensuring compliance with a documented set of
approach independently of the choice it has made between internal policies and controls concerning the overall
the Standardised Approach and the IRB Approach for the calcu­ operation of the risk-measurement system;
lation of risk-weighted exposure amounts. However, where an
institution seeks to use an internal models approach, it shall do
so for all counterparties and securities, excluding immaterial
portfolios where it may use the Supervisory Volatility (f) the institution's models have a proven track record of
Adjustments Approach or the Own Estimates Approach as reasonable accuracy in measuring risks demonstrated
laid down in Article 220. through the back-testing of its output using at least one
year of data;
Institutions that have received permission for an internal risk-
management model under Title IV, Chapter 5 may use the
(g) the institution frequently conducts a rigorous programme of
internal models approach. Where an institution has not
stress testing and the results of these tests are reviewed by
received such permission, it may still apply for permission to
senior management and reflected in the policies and limits it
the competent authorities to use an internal models approach
sets;
for the purposes of this Article.
4. Competent authorities shall permit an institution to use an
(h) the institution conducts, as part of its regular internal
internal models approach only where they are satisfied that the
auditing process, an independent review of its risk-
institution's system for managing the risks arising from the
measurement system. This review shall include both the
transactions covered by the master netting agreement is concep­
activities of the business trading units and of the inde­
tually sound and implemented with integrity and where the
pendent risk-control unit;
following qualitative standards are met:
(a) the internal risk-measurement model used for calculating
(i) at least once a year, the institution conducts a review of its
the potential price volatility for the transactions is closely
risk-management system;
integrated into the daily risk-management process of the
institution and serves as the basis for reporting risk
exposures to the senior management of the institution;
(j) the internal model meets the requirements set out in
Article 292(8) and (9) and in Article 294.
(b) the institution has a risk control unit that meets all the
following requirements:
5. An institution's internal risk-measurement model shall
(i) it is independent from business trading units and capture a sufficient number of risk factors in order to capture
reports directly to senior management; all material price risks.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/139
An institution may use empirical correlations within risk criteria set out in Article 285(2), (3) and (4), the minimum
categories and across risk categories where its system for holding period shall be brought in line with the margin
measuring correlations is sound and implemented with period of risk that would apply under those paragraphs, in
integrity. combination with Article 285(5).
6. Institutions using the internal models approach shall
8. For the purpose of calculating risk-weighted exposure
calculate E* according to the following formula:
amounts and expected loss amounts for repurchase transactions
or securities or commodities lending or borrowing transactions
or other capital market-driven transactions covered by master
whE eä
r
e¼
:
max (0, 8
>>>:
Xi E i – Xi C i 9
>>>;
þ potential change in value ) n p coae ut rt a ni gn tr eg a
r
p pa h ag
r
r te 6 ye m a ae s rn ist t is h n, e gi n es ft x ri p otu o mt si o un r te hs es v h aa tlu rll ae
n
u ss o ae f
c
tE it o* h nea
s
s ec x sa uplc bou js el u ca r tt e e d
t
t oou nd tt hhe eer
master netting agreement for the purposes of Article 113
under the Standardised Approach or Chapter 3 under the IRB
Approach.
E
i
= the exposure value for each separate exposure i under the
agreement that would apply in the absence of the credit
protection, where institutions calculate the risk-weighted
exposure amounts under the Standardised Approach or
9. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
where they calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts
specify the following:
and expected loss amounts under the IRB Approach;
C i = the value of the securities borrowed, purchased or received (a) what constitutes an immaterial portfolio for the purpose of
or the cash borrowed or received in respect of each such paragraph 3;
exposure i.
When calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts using (b) the criteria for determining whether an internal model is
internal models, institutions shall use the previous business sound and implemented with integrity for the purpose of
day's model output. paragraphs 4 and 5 and master netting agreements.
7. The calculation of the potential change in value referred to
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
in paragraph 6 shall be subject to all the following standards:
the Commission by 31 December 2015.
(a) it shall be carried out at least daily;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
(b) it shall be based on a 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
interval; No 1093/2010.
(c) it shall be based on a 5-day equivalent liquidation period,
Article 222
except in the case of transactions other than securities
repurchase transactions or securities lending or borrowing Financial Collateral Simple Method
transactions where a 10-day equivalent liquidation period
shall be used; 1. Institutions may use the Financial Collateral Simple
Method only where they calculate risk-weighted exposure
amounts under the Standardised Approach. Institution shall
not use both the Financial Collateral Simple Method and the
(d) it shall be based on an effective historical observation period
Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method, except for the
of at least one year except where a shorter observation
purposes of Articles 148(1) and 150(1). Institutions shall not
period is justified by a significant upsurge in price volatility;
use this exception selectively with the purpose of achieving
reduced own funds requirements or with the purpose of
conducting regulatory arbitrage.
(e) the data set used in the calculation shall be updated every
three months.
2. Under the Financial Collateral Simple Method institutions
Where an institution has a repurchase transaction, a securities shall assign to eligible financial collateral a value equal to its
or commodities lending or borrowing transaction and margin market value as determined in accordance with point (d) of
lending or similar transaction or netting set which meets the Article 207(4).
L 176/140 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Institutions shall assign to those portions of exposure (a) debt securities issued by regional governments or local auth­
values that are collateralised by the market value of eligible orities exposures to which are treated as exposures to the
collateral the risk weight that they would assign under central government in whose jurisdiction they are estab­
Chapter 2 where the lending institution had a direct exposure lished under Article 115;
to the collateral instrument. For this purpose, the exposure
value of an off-balance sheet item listed in Annex I shall be
equal to 100 % of the item's value rather than the exposure
(b) debt securities issued by multilateral development banks to
value indicated in Article 111(1).
which a 0 % risk weight is assigned under or by virtue of
Article 117(2);
The risk weight of the collateralised portion shall be at least
20 % except as specified in paragraphs 4 to 6. Institutions shall
(c) debt securities issued by international organisations which
apply to the remainder of the exposure value the risk weight
are assigned a 0 % risk weight under Article 118;
that they would assign to an unsecured exposure to the
counterparty under Chapter 2.
(d) debt securities issued by public sector entities which are
treated as exposures to central governments in accordance
4. Institutions shall assign a risk weight of 0 % to the collat­ with Article 116(4).
eralised portion of the exposure arising from repurchase trans­
action and securities lending or borrowing transactions which
fulfil the criteria in Article 227. Where the counterparty to the
Article 223
transaction is not a core market participant, institutions shall
assign a risk weight of 10 %. Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method
1. In order to take account of price volatility, institutions
shall apply volatility adjustments to the market value of
5. Institutions shall assign a risk weight of 0 %, to the extent collateral, as set out in Articles 224 to 227, when valuing
of the collateralisation, to the exposure values determined under financial collateral for the purposes of the Financial Collateral
Chapter 6 for the derivative instruments listed in Annex II and Comprehensive Method.
subject to daily marking-to-market, collateralised by cash or
cash-assimilated instruments where there is no currency
mismatch.
Where collateral is denominated in a currency that differs from
the currency in which the underlying exposure is denominated,
institutions shall add an adjustment reflecting currency volatility
to the volatility adjustment appropriate to the collateral as set
Institutions shall assign a risk weight of 10 %, to the extent of
out in Articles 224 to 227.
the collateralisation, to the exposure values of such transactions
collateralised by debt securities issued by central governments
or central banks which are assigned a 0 % risk weight under
Chapter 2. In the case of OTC derivatives transactions covered by netting
agreements recognised by the competent authorities under
Chapter 6, institutions shall apply a volatility adjustment
reflecting currency volatility when there is a mismatch
6. For transactions other than those referred to in paragraphs between the collateral currency and the settlement currency.
4 and 5, institutions may assign a 0 % risk weight where the Even where multiple currencies are involved in the transactions
exposure and the collateral are denominated in the same covered by the netting agreement, institutions shall apply a
currency, and either of the following conditions is met: single volatility adjustment.
2. Institutions shall calculate the volatility-adjusted value of
(a) the collateral is cash on deposit or a cash assimilated
instrument;
the collateral (C VA) they need to take into account as follows:
C
V A ¼
C · 1 – H
C
– H
fx
where: Ä Ö
(b) the collateral is in the form of debt securities issued by
central governments or central banks eligible for a 0 %
risk weight under Article 114, and its market value has
been discounted by 20 %.
C = the value of the collateral;
7. For the purpose of paragraphs 5 and 6 debt securities H
C
= the volatility adjustment appropriate to the collateral, as
issued by central governments or central banks shall include: calculated under Articles 224 and 227;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/141
H
f x
= the volatility adjustment appropriate to currency where:
mismatch, as calculated under Articles 224 and 227.
Institutions shall use the formula in this paragraph when calcu­
E
V A
= the volatility adjusted value of the exposure as
calculated in paragraph 3;
lating the volatility-adjusted value of the collateral for all trans­
actions except for those transactions subject to recognised
master netting agreements to which the provisions set out in
Articles 220 and 221 apply.
C
VAM
= C
VA
further adjusted for any maturity mismatch in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5;
3. Institutions shall calculate the volatility-adjusted value of
the exposure (E VA) they need to take into account as follows:
6. Institutions may calculate volatility adjustments either by
E
V A
E · 1 H
E
¼ þ using the Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach referred
where: Ä Ö to in Article 224 or the Own Estimates Approach referred to in
Article 225.
E = the exposure value as would be determined under
Chapter 2 or Chapter 3, as applicable, where the
An institution may choose to use the Supervisory Volatility
exposure was not collateralised;
Adjustments Approach or the Own Estimates Approach inde­
pendently of the choice it has made between the Standardised
Approach and the IRB Approach for the calculation of risk-
weighted exposure amounts.
H
E
= the volatility adjustment appropriate to the exposure, as
calculated under Articles 224 and 227.
However, where an institution uses the Own Estimates
In the case of OTC derivative transactions institutions shall Approach, it shall do so for the full range of instrument
calculate E
V A
as follows: types, excluding immaterial portfolios where it may use the
Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach.
E
VA
E.
¼
7. Where the collateral consists of a number of eligible
items, institutions shall calculate the volatility adjustment (H)
4. For the purpose of calculating E in paragraph 3, the
as follows:
following shall apply:
H a
i
H
i
¼
i
X
(a) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts where:
under the Standardised Approach, the exposure value of an
off-balance sheet item listed in Annex I shall be 100 % of
that item's value rather than the exposure value indicated in
Article 111(1); a
i
= the proportion of the value of an eligible item i in the
total value of collateral;
(b) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
under the IRB Approach, they shall calculate the exposure
value of the items listed in Article 166(8) to (10) by using a
H
i
= the volatility adjustment applicable to eligible item i.
conversion factor of 100 % rather than the conversion
factors or percentages indicated in those paragraphs.
Article 224
Supervisory volatility adjustment under the Financial
5. Institutions shall calculate the fully adjusted value of the
Collateral Comprehensive Method
exposure (E*), taking into account both volatility and the risk-
mitigating effects of collateral as follows: 1. The volatility adjustments to be applied by institutions
under the Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach,
assuming daily revaluation, shall be those set out in Tables 1
Eä max 0; E V A – C V AM to 4 of this paragraph.
¼ f g
L 176/142 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
VOLATILITY ADJUSTMENTS
Table 1
Credit quality
step with which
Volatility adjustments for debt securities Volatility adjustments for debt securities Volatility adjustments for securitisation
the credit Residual
issued by entities described in issued by entities described in positions and meeting the criteria in
assessment of Maturity
Article 197(1)(b) Article 197(1) (c) and (d) Article 197(1) (h)
the debt security
is associated
20-day 10-day 5-day 20-day 10-day 5-day 20-day 10-day 5-day
liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation
period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%)
1 ≤ 1 year 0,707 0,5 0,354 1,414 1 0,707 2,829 2 1,414
>1 ≤ 5 years 2,828 2 1,414 5,657 4 2,828 11,314 8 5,657
> 5 years 5,657 4 2,828 11,314 8 5,657 22,628 16 11,313
2-3 ≤ 1 year 1,414 1 0,707 2,828 2 1,414 5,657 4 2,828
>1 ≤ 5 years 4,243 3 2,121 8,485 6 4,243 16,971 12 8,485
> 5 years 8,485 6 4,243 16,971 12 8,485 33,942 24 16,970
4 ≤ 1 year 21,213 15 10,607 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
>1 ≤ 5 years 21,213 15 10,607 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
> 5 years 21,213 15 10,607 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Table 2
Credit quality step
with which the
Volatility adjustments for debt securities issued Volatility adjustments for debt securities issued
credit assessment Volatility adjustments for securitisation positions
by entities described in Article 197(1)(b) with by entities described in Article 197(1) (c) and (d)
of a short term and meeting the criteria in Article 197(1)(h)
short-term credit assessments with short-term credit assessments
debt security is
associated
20-day 10-day 5-day 20-day 10-day 5-day 20-day 10-day 5-day
liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation liquidation
period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%) period (%)
1 0,707 0,5 0,354 1,414 1 0,707 2,829 2 1,414
2-3 1,414 1 0,707 2,828 2 1,414 5,657 4 2,828
Table 3
Other collateral or exposure types
20-day liquidation 10-day liquidation 5-day liquidation
period (%) period (%) period (%)
Main Index Equities, Main Index Convertible Bonds 21,213 15 10,607
Other Equities or Convertible Bonds listed on a recognised 35,355 25 17,678
exchange
Cash 0 0 0
Gold 21,213 15 10,607
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/143
Table 4 Where the assets in which the fund has invested are not known
to the institution, the volatility adjustment is the highest vola­
Volatility adjustment for currency mismatch
tility adjustment that would apply to any of the assets in which
the fund has the right to invest.
20-day liquidation period 10-day liquidation period 5-day liquidation period
(%) (%) %)
11,314 8 5,657
6. For unrated debt securities issued by institutions and
satisfying the eligibility criteria in Article 197(4) the volatility
adjustments is the same as for securities issued by institutions
2. The calculation of volatility adjustments in accordance
or corporates with an external credit assessment associated with
with paragraph 1 shall be subject to the following conditions:
credit quality steps 2 or 3.
(a) for secured lending transactions the liquidation period shall
be 20 business days; Article 225
Own estimates of volatility adjustments under the
Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method
(b) for repurchase transactions, except insofar as such trans­ 1. The competent authorities shall permit institutions to use
actions involve the transfer of commodities or guaranteed their own volatility estimates for calculating the volatility
rights relating to title to commodities, and securities lending adjustments to be applied to collateral and exposures where
or borrowing transactions the liquidation period shall be 5 those institutions comply with the requirements set out in para­
business days; graphs 2 and 3. Institutions which have obtained permission to
use their own volatility estimates shall not revert to the use of
other methods except for demonstrated good cause and subject
to the permission of the competent authorities.
(c) for other capital market driven transactions, the liquidation
period shall be 10 business days.
For debt securities that have a credit assessment from an ECAI
equivalent to investment grade or better, institutions may
Where an institution has a transaction or netting set which calculate a volatility estimate for each category of security.
meets the criteria set out in Article 285(2), (3) and (4), the
minimum holding period shall be brought in line with the
margin period of risk that would apply under those paragraphs.
For debt securities that have a credit assessment from an ECAI
equivalent to below investment grade, and for other eligible
collateral, institutions shall calculate the volatility adjustments
3. In Tables 1 to 4 of paragraph 1 and in paragraphs 4 to 6,
for each individual item.
the credit quality step with which a credit assessment of the
debt security is associated is the credit quality step with which
the credit assessment is determined by EBA to be associated
under Chapter 2.
Institutions using the Own Estimates Approach shall estimate
volatility of the collateral or foreign exchange mismatch without
taking into account any correlations between the unsecured
exposure, collateral or exchange rates.
For the purpose of determining the credit quality step with
which a credit assessment of the debt security is associated
referred to in the first subparagraph, Article 197(7) also applies.
In determining relevant categories, institutions shall take into
account the type of issuer of the security, the external credit
assessment of the securities, their residual maturity, and their
4. For non-eligible securities or for commodities lent or sold
modified duration. Volatility estimates shall be representative of
under repurchase transactions or securities or commodities
the securities included in the category by the institution.
lending or borrowing transactions, the volatility adjustment is
the same as for non-main index equities listed on a recognised
exchange.
2. The calculation of the volatility adjustments shall be
subject to all the following criteria:
5. For eligible units in CIUs the volatility adjustment is the
weighted average volatility adjustments that would apply,
having regard to the liquidation period of the transaction as
specified in paragraph 2, to the assets in which the fund has (a) institutions shall base the calculation on a 99th percentile,
invested. one-tailed confidence interval;
L 176/144 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) institutions shall base the calculation on the following liqui­ (f) institutions shall update their data sets and calculate vola­
dation periods: tility adjustments at least once every three months. They
shall also reassess their data sets whenever market prices
are subject to material changes.
(i) 20 business days for secured lending transactions;
3. The estimation of volatility adjustments shall meet all the
(ii) 5 business days for repurchase transaction, except following qualitative criteria:
insofar as such transactions involve the transfer of
commodities or guaranteed rights relating to title to
commodities and securities lending or borrowing trans­
actions; (a) an institutions shall use the volatility estimates in the day-
to-day risk management process including in relation to its
internal exposure limits;
(iii) 10 business days for other capital market driven trans­
actions;
(b) where the liquidation period used by an institution in its
day-to-day risk management process is longer than that set
(c) institutions may use volatility adjustment numbers
out in this Section for the type of transaction in question,
calculated according to shorter or longer liquidation
that institution shall scale up its volatility adjustments in
periods, scaled up or down to the liquidation period set
accordance with the square root of time formula set out
out in point (b) for the type of transaction in question,
in point (c) of paragraph 2;
using the square root of time formula:
H M H N ·
T
M
(c) a mn
o
nin its oti rt iu nt gio an
n
dsh ea nll
s
uh ra iv ne
g
i cn
o
mpl pac lie
a
ne cs eta wbl ii ts hh e ad
d
p or co uc med eu nr tee ds f so er
t
¼ rffiT
ffiffi Nffiffiffi of policies and controls for the operation of its system for
the estimation of volatility adjustments and for the inte­
gration of such estimations into its risk management
where: process;
T
M
= the relevant liquidation period;
(d) an independent review of the institution's system for the
estimation of volatility adjustments shall be carried out
regularly within the institution's own internal auditing
H M = the volatility adjustment based on the liquidation process. A review of the overall system for the estimation
period T M ; of volatility adjustments and for the integration of those
adjustments into the institution's risk management process
shall take place at least once a year. The subject of that
H
N
= the volatility adjustment based on the liquidation review shall include at least the following:
period T
N
.
(i) the integration of estimated volatility adjustments into
(d) institutions shall take into account the illiquidity of lower-
daily risk management;
quality assets. They shall adjust the liquidation period
upwards in cases where there is doubt concerning the
liquidity of the collateral. They shall also identify where
historical data may understate potential volatility. Such
(ii) the validation of any significant change in the process
cases shall be dealt with by means of a stress scenario;
for the estimation of volatility adjustments;
(e) the length of the historical observation period institutions
use for calculating volatility adjustments shall be at least one (iii) the verification of the consistency, timeliness and relia­
year. For institutions that use a weighting scheme or other bility of data sources used to run the system for the
methods for the historical observation period, the length of estimation of volatility adjustments, including the inde­
the effective observation period shall be at least one year. pendence of such data sources;
The competent authorities may also require an institution to
calculate its volatility adjustments using a shorter obser­
vation period where, in the competent authorities'
judgement, this is justified by a significant upsurge in (iv) the accuracy and appropriateness of the volatility
price volatility; assumptions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/145
Article 226 within the meaning of Article 197(1)(b) and eligible for a
0 % risk weight under Chapter 2;
Scaling up of volatility adjustment under the Financial
Collateral Comprehensive method
(b) both the exposure and the collateral are denominated in the
The volatility adjustments set out in Article 224 are the vola­
same currency;
tility adjustments an institution shall apply where there is daily
revaluation. Similarly, where an institution uses its own
estimates of the volatility adjustments in accordance with
(c) either the maturity of the transaction is no more than one
Article 225, it shall calculate them in the first instance on the
day or both the exposure and the collateral are subject to
basis of daily revaluation. Where the frequency of revaluation is
daily marking-to-market or daily re-margining;
less than daily, institutions shall apply larger volatility adjust­
ments. Institutions shall calculate them by scaling up the daily
revaluation volatility adjustments, using the following square-
(d) the time between the last marking-to-market before a failure
root-of-time formula:
to re-margin by the counterparty and the liquidation of the
collateral is no more than four business days;
N
R
T
M
– 1
(e) the transaction is settled in a settlement system proven for
H H
M
· þ
¼ sffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ÄTffiffiffi Mffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffiffiffi Öffiffi that type of transaction;
(f) the documentation covering the agreement or transaction is
where: standard market documentation for repurchase transactions
or securities lending or borrowing transactions in the
securities concerned;
H = the volatility adjustment to be applied;
(g) the transaction is governed by documentation specifying
that where the counterparty fails to satisfy an obligation
to deliver cash or securities or to deliver margin or
H M = the volatility adjustment where there is daily revaluation; otherwise defaults, then the transaction is immediately
terminable;
N R = the actual number of business days between revaluations; (h) the counterparty is considered a core market participant by
the competent authorities.
T
M
= the liquidation period for the type of transaction in
3. The core market participants referred to in point (h) of
question.
paragraph 2 shall include the following entities:
(a) the entities mentioned in Article 197(1)(b) exposures to
Article 227
which are assigned a 0 % risk weight under Chapter 2;
Conditions for applying a 0 % volatility adjustment under
the Financial Collateral Comprehensive method
(b) institutions;
1. In relation to repurchase transactions and securities
lending or borrowing transactions, where an institution uses
the Supervisory Volatility Adjustments Approach under (c) other financial undertakings within the meaning of points
Article 224 or the Own Estimates Approach under Article 225 (25)(b) and (d) of Article 13 of Directive 2009/138/EC
and where the conditions set out in points (a) to (h) of exposures to which are assigned a 20 % risk weight under
paragraph 2 are satisfied, institutions may, instead of applying the Standardised Approach or which, in the case of insti­
the volatility adjustments calculated under Articles 224 to 226, tutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and
apply a 0 % volatility adjustment. Institutions using the internal expected loss amounts under the IRB Approach, do not
models approach set out in Article 221 shall not use the have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI and are
treatment set out in this Article. internally rated by the institution;
(d) regulated CIUs that are subject to capital or leverage require­
2. Institutions may apply a 0 % volatility adjustment where ments;
all the following conditions are met:
(e) regulated pension funds;
(a) both the exposure and the collateral are cash or debt
securities issued by central governments or central banks (f) recognised clearing organisations.
L 176/146 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 228 3. Institutions shall value physical collateral other than
immovable property at its market value. For the purposes of
Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected
this Article, the market value is the estimated amount for which
loss amounts under the Financial Collateral Comprehensive
the property would exchange on the date of valuation between
method
a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm's-length trans­
1. Under the Standardised Approach, institutions shall use E* action.
as calculated under Article 223(5) as the exposure value for the
purposes of Article 113. In the case of off-balance sheet items
listed in Annex I, institutions shall use E* as the value to which
Article 230
the percentages indicated in Article 111(1) shall be applied to
arrive at the exposure value. Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected
loss amounts for other eligible collateral under the IRB
Approach
2. Under the IRB Approach, institutions shall use the 1. Institutions shall use LGD* calculated in accordance with
effective LGD (LGD*) as the LGD for the purposes of Chapter this paragraph and paragraph 2 as the LGD for the purposes of
3. Institutions shall calculate LGD* as follows: Chapter 3.
E
ä
LGDä LGD ·
¼ E Where the ratio of the value of the collateral (C) to the exposure
where: value (E) is below the required minimum collateralisation level
of the exposure (C*) as laid down in Table 5, LGD* shall be the
LGD laid down in Chapter 3 for uncollateralised exposures to
the counterparty. For this purpose, institutions shall calculate
LGD = the LGD that would apply to the exposure under
the exposure value of the items listed in Article 166(8) to
Chapter 3 where the exposure was not collateralised;
(10) by using a conversion factor or percentage of 100 %
rather than the conversion factors or percentages indicated in
those paragraphs.
E = the exposure value in accordance with Article 223(3);
Where the ratio of the value of the collateral to the exposure
E* = the fully adjusted exposure value in accordance with value exceeds a second, higher threshold level of C** as laid
Article 223(5). down in Table 5, LGD* shall be that prescribed in Table 5.
Article 229 Where the required level of collateralisation C** is not achieved
in respect of the exposure as a whole, institutions shall consider
Valuation principles for other eligible collateral under the
the exposure to be two exposures — one corresponding to the
IRB Approach
part in respect of which the required level of collateralisation
1. For immovable property collateral, the collateral shall be C** is achieved and one corresponding to the remainder.
valued by an independent valuer at or at less than the market
value. An institution shall require the independent valuer to
document the market value in a transparent and clear manner.
2. The applicable LGD* and required collateralisation levels
for the secured parts of exposures are set out in Table 5 of this
paragraph.
In those Member States that have laid down rigorous criteria for
the assessment of the mortgage lending value in statutory or
regulatory provisions the property may instead be valued by an
independent valuer at or at less than the mortgage lending Table 5
value. Institutions shall require the independent valuer not to
Minimum LGD for secured parts of exposures
take into account speculative elements in the assessment of the
mortgage lending value and to document that value in a trans­
Required
Required
parent and clear manner. minimum
LGD* for minimum
LGD* for collaterali­
subor­ collaterali­
senior sation level
dinated sation level
exposure of the
exposures of the
The value of the collateral shall be the market value or exposure (C*) exposure
(C**)
mortgage lending value reduced as appropriate to reflect the
results of the monitoring required under Article 208(3) and
Receivables 35 % 65 % 0 % 125 %
to take account of any prior claims on the property.
Residential real estate/ 35 % 65 % 30 % 140 %
commercial real estate
2. For receivables, the value of receivables shall be the
Other collateral 40 % 70 % 30 % 140 %
amount receivable.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/147
3. As an alternative to the treatment set out in paragraphs 1 (b) where the exposure is subject to the IRB Approach but not
and 2, and subject to Article 124(2), institutions may assign a subject to the institution's own estimates of LGD, it shall be
50 % risk weight to the part of the exposure that is, within the assigned an LGD of 40 %.
limits set out in Article 125(2)(d) and Article 126(2)(d) respect­
ively, fully collateralised by residential property or commercial
immovable property situated within the territory of a Member In the event of a currency mismatch, institutions shall reduce
State where all the conditions in Article 199(4) are met. the current surrender value in accordance with Article 233(3),
the value of the credit protection being the current surrender
value of the life insurance policy.
Article 231
Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected 3. For the purposes of point (a) of paragraph 2, institutions
loss amounts in the case of mixed pools of collateral shall assign the following risk weights on the basis of the risk
weight assigned to a senior unsecured exposure to the under­
1. An institution shall calculate the value of LGD* that it taking providing the life insurance:
shall use as the LGD for the purposes of Chapter 3 in
accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 where both the
following conditions are met:
(a) a risk weight of 20 %, where the senior unsecured exposure
to the undertaking providing the life insurance is assigned a
risk weight of 20 %;
(a) the institution uses the IRB Approach to calculate risk-
weighted exposure amounts and expected loss amounts;
(b) a risk weight of 35 %, where the senior unsecured exposure
to the undertaking providing the life insurance is assigned a
risk weight of 50 %;
(b) an exposure is collateralised by both financial collateral and
other eligible collateral.
(c) a risk weight of 70 %, where the senior unsecured exposure
to the undertaking providing the life insurance is assigned a
risk weight of 100 %;
2. Institutions shall be required to subdivide the volatility-
adjusted value of the exposure, obtained by applying the vola­
tility adjustment as set out in Article 223(5) to the value of the
(d) a risk weight of 150 %, where the senior unsecured
exposure, into parts so as to obtain a part covered by eligible
exposure to the undertaking providing the life insurance is
financial collateral, a part covered by receivables, a part covered
assigned a risk weight of 150 %.
by commercial immovable property collateral or residential
property collateral, a part covered by other eligible collateral,
and the unsecured part, as applicable.
4. Institutions may treat instruments repurchased on request
that are eligible under Article 200(c) as a guarantee by the
issuing institution. The value of the eligible credit protection
3. Institutions shall calculate LGD* for each part of the shall be the following:
exposure obtained in paragraph 2 separately in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Chapter.
(a) where the instrument will be repurchased at its face value,
the value of the protection shall be that amount;
Article 232
(b) where the instrument will be repurchased at market price,
Other funded credit protection
the value of the protection shall be the value of the
1. Where the conditions set out in Article 212(1) are met, instrument valued in the same way as the debt securities
deposits with third party institutions may be treated as a that meet the conditions in Article 197(4).
guarantee by the third party institution.
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
2. Where the conditions set out in Article 212(2) are met, U n f u n d e d c r e d i t p r o t e c t i o n
institutions shall subject the portion of the exposure collat­
Article 233
eralised by the current surrender value of life insurance
policies pledged to the lending institution to the following Valuation
treatment:
1. For the purpose of calculating the effects of unfunded
credit protection in accordance with this Sub-section, the
value of unfunded credit protection (G) shall be the amount
(a) where the exposure is subject to the Standardised Approach, that the protection provider has undertaken to pay in the
it shall be risk-weighted by using the risk weights specified event of the default or non-payment of the borrower or on
in paragraph 3; the occurrence of other specified credit events.
L 176/148 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. In the case of credit derivatives which do not include as a Article 235
credit event restructuring of the underlying obligation involving
Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts under the
forgiveness or postponement of principal, interest or fees that
Standardised Approach
result in a credit loss event the following shall apply:
1. For the purposes of Article 113(3) institutions shall
calculate the risk-weighted exposure amounts in accordance
(a) where the amount that the protection provider has with the following formula:
undertaken to pay is not higher than the exposure value,
institutions shall reduce the value of the credit protection max 0,E – G
A
· r G
A
· g
calculated under paragraph 1 by 40 %; f g þ
where:
(b) where the amount that the protection provider has
undertaken to pay is higher than the exposure value, the
E = the exposure value in accordance with Article 111; for
value of the credit protection shall be no higher than 60 %
this purpose, the exposure value of an off-balance sheet
of the exposure value.
item listed in Annex I shall be 100 % of its value rather
than the exposure value indicated in Article 111(1);
3. Where unfunded credit protection is denominated in a
currency different from that in which the exposure is denomi­
nated, institutions shall reduce the value of the credit protection
by the application of a volatility adjustment as follows:
G
A
= the amount of credit risk protection as calculated under
Article 233(3) (G*) further adjusted for any maturity
mismatch as laid down in Section 5;
G ä ¼ G · ð1 – H fx Þ
where:
r = the risk weight of exposures to the obligor as specified
under Chapter 2;
G* = the amount of credit protection adjusted for foreign
exchange risk,
g = the risk weight of exposures to the protection provider as
G = the nominal amount of the credit protection; specified under Chapter 2.
H
f x
= the volatility adjustment for any currency mismatch
between the credit protection and the underlying 2. Where the protected amount (G A ) is less than the
obligation determined in accordance with paragraph 4. exposure (E), institutions may apply the formula specified in
paragraph 1 only where the protected and unprotected parts
of the exposure are of equal seniority.
Where there is no currency mismatch H
f x
is equal to zero.
3. Institutions may extend the treatment set out in
4. Institutions shall base the volatility adjustments for any Article 114(4) and (7) to exposures or parts of exposures guar­
currency mismatch on a 10 business day liquidation period, anteed by the central government or central bank, where the
assuming daily revaluation, and may calculate them based on guarantee is denominated in the domestic currency of the
the Supervisory Volatility Adjustments approach or the Own borrower and the exposure is funded in that currency.
Estimates Approach as set out in Articles 224 and 225 respect­
ively. Institutions shall scale up the volatility adjustments in
accordance with Article 226.
Article 236
Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected
Article 234
loss amounts under the IRB Approach
Calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected
1. For the covered portion of the exposure value (E), based
loss amounts in the event of partial protection and
tranching
on the adjusted value of the credit protection G
A
, the PD for the
purposes of Section 4 of Chapter 3 may be the PD of the
Where an institution transfers a part of the risk of a loan in one protection provider, or a PD between that of the borrower
or more tranches, the rules set out in Chapter 5 shall apply. and that of the guarantor where a full substitution is deemed
Institutions may consider materiality thresholds on payments not to be warranted. In the case of subordinated exposures and
below which no payment shall be made in the event of loss non-subordinated unfunded protection, the LGD to be applied
to be equivalent to retained first loss positions and to give rise by institutions for the purposes of Section 4 of Chapter 3 may
to a tranched transfer of risk. be that associated with senior claims.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/149
2. For any uncovered portion of the exposure value (E) the is an option to terminate the protection which is at the
PD shall be that of the borrower and the LGD shall be that of discretion of the protection buyer and the terms of the
the underlying exposure. arrangement at origination of the protection contain a
positive incentive for the institution to call the transaction
before contractual maturity, an institution shall take the
maturity of the protection to be the time to the earliest date
3. For the purposes of this Article, G A is the value of G* as at which that option may be exercised; otherwise the institution
calculated under Article 233(3) further adjusted for any may consider that such an option does not affect the maturity
maturity mismatch as laid down in Section 5. E is the of the protection.
exposure value determined in accordance with Section 5 of
Chapter 3. For this purpose, institutions shall calculate the
exposure value of the items listed in Article 166(8) to (10) by
using a conversion factor or percentage of 100 % rather than 3. Where a credit derivative is not prevented from
the conversion factors or percentages indicated in those para­ terminating prior to expiration of any grace period required
graphs. for a default on the underlying obligation to occur as a result
of a failure to pay institutions shall reduce the maturity of the
protection by the length of the grace period.
S e c t i o n 5
M a t u r i t y m i s m a t c h e s Article 239
Article 237 Valuation of protection
Maturity mismatch 1. For transactions subject to funded credit protection under
the Financial Collateral Simple Method, where there is a
1. For the purpose of calculating risk-weighted exposure
mismatch between the maturity of the exposure and the
amounts, a maturity mismatch occurs when the residual
maturity of the protection, the collateral does not qualify as
maturity of the credit protection is less than that of the
eligible funded credit protection.
protected exposure. Where protection has a residual maturity
of less than three months and the maturity of the protection is
less than the maturity of the underlying exposure that
protection does not qualify as eligible credit protection. 2. For transactions subject to funded credit protection under
the Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method, institutions
shall reflect the maturity of the credit protection and of the
exposure in the adjusted value of the collateral according to
2. Where there is a maturity mismatch the credit protection the following formula:
shall not qualify as eligible where either of the following
conditions is met:
t – t
ä
C
V AM ¼
C
V A
·
T – t
ä
where:
(a) the original maturity of the protection is less than 1 year;
(b) the exposure is a short term exposure specified by the
C
VA
= the volatility adjusted value of the collateral as specified
in Article 223(2) or the amount of the exposure,
competent authorities as being subject to a one-day floor
whichever is lower;
rather than a one-year floor in respect of the maturity value
(M) under Article 162(3).
t = the number of years remaining to the maturity date of
the credit protection calculated in accordance with
Article 238 Article 238, or the value of T, whichever is lower;
Maturity of credit protection
1. Subject to a maximum of five years, the effective maturity
T = the number of years remaining to the maturity date of
of the underlying shall be the longest possible remaining time
the exposure calculated in accordance with Article 238,
before the obligor is scheduled to fulfil its obligations. Subject
or five years, whichever is lower;
to paragraph 2, the maturity of the credit protection shall be
the time to the earliest date at which the protection may
terminate or be terminated.
t* = 0,25.
2. Where there is an option to terminate the protection
which is at the discretion of the protection seller, institutions Institutions shall use C
VAM
as C
VA
further adjusted for maturity
shall take the maturity of the protection to be the time to the mismatch in the formula for the calculation of the fully adjusted
earliest date at which that option may be exercised. Where there value of the exposure (E*) set out in Article 223(5).
L 176/150 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. For transactions subject to unfunded credit protection, Article 241
institutions shall reflect the maturity of the credit protection
Nth-to-default credit derivatives
and of the exposure in the adjusted value of the credit
protection according to the following formula: Where the nth default among the exposures triggers payment
under the credit protection, the institution purchasing the
protection may only recognise the protection for the calculation
t – t
ä
G A
¼
G ä ·
T – t
ä
o lof
s
sr is ak m-w oe uig nh tst ed
w
e hx ep reo su pr re
o
ta em cto iou nn ts
h
aa sn d a, lsa os a bp ep el nic a ob ble t,
a
ie nx ep de ct fe od
r
where: defaults 1 to n-1 or when n-1 defaults have already occurred.
In such cases, the institution may amend the calculation of the
risk-weighted exposure amount and, as applicable, the expected
G
A
= G* adjusted for any maturity mismatch; loss amount of the exposure which would, in the absence of the
credit protection, produce the n-th lowest risk-weighted
exposure amount in accordance with this Chapter. Institutions
G* = the amount of the protection adjusted for any currency shall calculate the nth lowest amount as specified in points (a)
mismatch; and (b) of Article 240.
t = is the number of years remaining to the maturity date of
The treatment set out in this Article applies only where the
the credit protection calculated in accordance with
exposure value is less than or equal to the value of the credit
Article 238, or the value of T, whichever is lower;
protection.
T = is the number of years remaining to the maturity date of
the exposure calculated in accordance with Article 238, All exposures in the basket shall meet the requirements laid
or five years, whichever is lower; down in Article 204(2) and Article 216(1)(d).
t* = 0,25.
CHAPTER 5
Securitisation
Institutions shall use G
A
as the value of the protection for the
purposes of Articles 233 to 236. S e c t i o n 1
D e f i n i t i o n s
S e c t i o n 6 Article 242
B a s k e t C R M t e c h n i q u e s Definitions
Article 240 For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall
apply:
First-to-default credit derivatives
Where an institution obtains credit protection for a number of
exposures under terms that the first default among the
(1) 'excess spread' means finance charge collections and other
exposures shall trigger payment and that this credit event
fee income received in respect of the securitised exposures
shall terminate the contract, the institution may amend the
net of costs and expenses;
calculation of the risk-weighted exposure amount and, as
relevant, the expected loss amount of the exposure which
would, in the absence of the credit protection, produce the
lowest risk weighted exposure amount in accordance with this (2) 'clean-up call option' means a contractual option for the
Chapter: originator to repurchase or extinguish the securitisation
positions before all of the underlying exposures have
been repaid, when the amount of outstanding exposures
(a) for institutions using the Standardised Approach, the risk- falls below a specified level;
weighted exposure amount shall be that calculated under
the Standardised Approach;
(3) 'liquidity facility' means the securitisation position arising
from a contractual agreement to provide funding to ensure
(b) for institutions using the IRB Approach, the risk-weighted
timeliness of cash flows to investors;
exposure amount shall be the sum of the risk-weighted
exposure amount calculated under the IRB Approach and
12.5 times the expected loss amount.
(4) 'K
I
RB' means 8 % of the risk-weighted exposure amounts
that would be calculated under Chapter 3 in respect of the
The treatment set out in this Article applies only where the securitised exposures, had they not been securitised, plus
exposure value is less than or equal to the value of the credit the amount of expected losses associated with those
protection. exposures calculated under that Chapter;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/151
(5) 'ratings based method' means the method of calculating (15) 'first loss tranche' means the most subordinated tranche in
risk-weighted exposure amounts for securitisation a securitisation that is the first tranche to bear losses
positions in accordance with Article 261; incurred on the securitised exposures and thereby
provides protection to the second loss and, where
relevant, higher ranking tranches.
(6) 'supervisory formula method' means the method of calcu­
lating risk-weighted exposure amounts for securitisation
positions in accordance with Article 262; S e c t i o n 2
R e c o g n i t i o n o f s i g n i f i c a n t r i s k t r a n s f e r
Article 243
(7) 'unrated position' means a securitisation position which
does not have an eligible credit assessment by an ECAI Traditional securitisation
as referred to in Section 4;
1. The originator institution of a traditional securitisation
may exclude securitised exposures from the calculation of
risk-weighted exposure amounts and expected loss amounts if
(8) 'rated position' means a securitisation position which has either of the following conditions is fulfilled:
an eligible credit assessment by an ECAI as referred to in
Section 4;
(a) significant credit risk associated with the securitised
exposures is considered to have been transferred to third
(9) 'asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) programme' means parties;
a programme of securitisations the securities issued by
which predominantly take the form of commercial paper
with an original maturity of one year or less;
(b) the originator institution applies a 1 250 % risk weight to
all securitisation positions it holds in this securitisation or
deducts these securitisation positions from Common Equity
(10) 'traditional securitisation' means a securitisation involving
Tier 1 items in accordance with Article 36(1)(k).
the economic transfer of the exposures being securitised.
This shall be accomplished by the transfer of ownership of
the securitised exposures from the originator institution to
an SSPE or through sub-participation by an SSPE. The
2. Significant credit risk shall be considered to have been
securities issued do not represent payment obligations of
transferred in the following cases:
the originator institution;
(a) the risk-weighted exposure amounts of the mezzanine secu­
(11) 'synthetic securitisation' means a securitisation where the
ritisation positions held by the originator institution in this
transfer of risk is achieved by the use of credit derivatives
securitisation do not exceed 50 % of the risk weighted
or guarantees, and the exposures being securitised remain
exposure amounts of all mezzanine securitisation positions
exposures of the originator institution;
existing in this securitisation;
(12) 'revolving exposure' means an exposure whereby
(b) where there are no mezzanine securitisation positions in a
customers' outstanding balances are permitted to
given securitisation and the originator can demonstrate that
fluctuate based on their decisions to borrow and repay,
the exposure value of the securitisation positions that would
up to an agreed limit;
be subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 or a
1 250 % risk weight exceeds a reasoned estimate of the
expected loss on the securitised exposures by a substantial
(13) 'revolving securitisation' means a securitisation where the margin, the originator institution does not hold more than
securitisation structure itself revolves by exposures being 20 % of the exposure values of the securitisation positions
added to or removed from the pool of exposures irre­ that would be subject to deduction from Common Equity
spective of whether the exposures revolve or not; Tier 1 or a 1 250 % risk weight.
(14) 'early amortisation provision' means a contractual clause in Where the possible reduction in risk weighted exposure
a securitisations of revolving exposures or a revolving amounts, which the originator institution would achieve by
securitisation which requires, on the occurrence of this securitisation is not justified by a commensurate transfer
defined events, investors' positions to be redeemed of credit risk to third parties, competent authorities may decide
before the originally stated maturity of the securities on a case-by-case basis that significant credit risk shall not be
issued; considered to have been transferred to third parties.
L 176/152 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, mezzanine securitisation obligated to re-assume transferred risk. The originator insti­
positions mean securitisation positions to which a risk weight tution's retention of servicing rights or obligations in respect
lower than 1 250 % applies and that are more junior than the of the exposures shall not of itself constitute indirect control
most senior position in this securitisation and more junior than of the exposures;
any securitisation position in this securitisation to which either
of the following is assigned in accordance with Section 4:
(e) the securitisation documentation meets all the following
conditions:
(a) in the case of a securitisation position subject to Section 3,
Sub-section 3 a credit quality step 1;
(i) it does not contain clauses that other than in the case
of early amortisation provisions, require positions in
(b) in the case of a securitisation position subject to points
the securitisation to be improved by the originator
Section 3, Sub-section 4 a credit quality step 1 or 2.
institution including but not limited to altering the
underlying credit exposures or increasing the yield
payable to investors in response to a deterioration in
4. As an alternative to paragraphs 2 and 3, competent auth­ the credit quality of the securitised exposures;
orities shall grant permission to originator institutions to
consider significant credit risk as having been transferred
where the originator institution is able to demonstrate, in
(ii) it does not contain clauses that increase the yield
every case of a securitisation, that the reduction of own funds
payable to holders of positions in the securitisation in
requirements which the originator achieves by the securitisation
response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the
is justified by a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third
underlying pool;
parties.
Permission shall be granted only where the institution meets all (iii) it makes it clear, where applicable, that any purchase or
of the following conditions: repurchase of securitisation positions by the originator
or sponsor beyond its contractual obligations is excep­
tional and may only be made at arms' lengths
conditions;
(a) the institution has appropriately risk-sensitive policies and
methodologies in place to assess the transfer of risk;
(f) where there is a clean-up call option, that option shall also
meet the following conditions:
(b) the institution has also recognised the transfer of credit risk
to third parties in each case for purposes of the institution's
internal risk management and its internal capital allocation.
(i) it is exercisable at the discretion of the originator insti­
tution;
5. In addition to the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to
4, as applicable, all the following conditions shall be met:
(ii) it may only be exercised when 10 % or less of the
original value of the exposures securitised remains
(a) the securitisation documentation reflects the economic unamortised;
substance of the transaction;
(iii) it is not structured to avoid allocating losses to credit
(b) the securitised exposures are put beyond the reach of the enhancement positions or other positions held by
originator institution and its creditors, including in bank­ investors and is not otherwise structured to provide
ruptcy and receivership. This shall be supported by the credit enhancement.
opinion of qualified legal counsel;
6. The competent authorities shall keep EBA informed about
(c) the securities issued do not represent payment obligations
the specific cases, referred to in paragraph 2, where the possible
of the originator institution;
reduction in risk-weighted exposure amounts is not justified by
a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third parties, and the
use institutions make of paragraph 4. EBA shall monitor the
(d) the originator institution does not maintain effective or range of practices in this area and shall, in accordance with
indirect control over the transferred exposures. An orig­ Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, issue guidelines.
inator shall be considered to have maintained effective EBA shall review Member States' implementation of those
control over the transferred exposures if it has the right guidelines and provide advice to the Commission by
to repurchase from the transferee the previously transferred 31 December 2017 on whether a binding technical standard
exposures in order to realise their benefits or if it is is required.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/153
Article 244 (b) in the case of a securitisation position subject to Section 3,
Sub-section 4 a credit quality step 1 or 2.
Synthetic securitisation
1. An originator institution of a synthetic securitisation may
calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts, and, as relevant, 4. As an alternative to paragraphs 2 and 3, competent auth­
expected loss amounts, for the securitised exposures in orities shall grant permission to originator institutions to
accordance with Article 249, if either of the following is met: consider significant credit risk as having been transferred
where the originator institution is able to demonstrate, in
every case of a securitisation, that the reduction of own funds
requirements which the originator achieves by the securitisation
(a) significant credit risk is considered to have been transferred
is justified by a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third
to third parties either through funded or unfunded credit
parties.
protection;
Permission shall be granted only where the institution meets all
(b) the originator institution applies a 1 250 % risk weight to
of the following conditions:
all securitisation positions it holds in this securitisation or
deducts these securitisation positions from Common Equity
Tier 1 items in accordance with Article 36(1)(k).
(a) the institution has appropriately risk-sensitive policies and
methodologies in place to assess the transfer of risk;
2. Significant credit risk shall be considered to have been
transferred if either of the following conditions is met:
(b) the institution has also recognised the transfer of credit risk
to third parties in each case for purposes of the institution's
internal risk management and its internal capital allocation.
(a) the risk-weighted exposure amounts of the mezzanine secu­
ritisation positions which are held by the originator insti­
tution in this securitisation do not exceed 50 % of the risk 5. In addition to the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to
weighted exposure amounts of all mezzanine securitisation 4, as applicable, the transfer shall comply with the following
positions existing in this securitisation; conditions:
(b) where there are no mezzanine securitisation positions in a (a) the securitisation documentation reflects the economic
given securitisation and the originator can demonstrate that substance of the transaction;
the exposure value of the securitisation positions that would
be subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 or a
1 250 % risk weight exceeds a reasoned estimate of the (b) the credit protection by which the credit risk is transferred
expected loss on the securitised exposures by a substantial complies with Article 247(2);
margin, the originator institution does not hold more than
20 % of the exposure values of the securitisation positions
that would be subject to deduction from Common Equity
(c) the instruments used to transfer credit risk do not contain
Tier 1 or a 1 250 % risk weight;
terms or conditions that:
(c) where the possible reduction in risk weighted exposure (i) impose significant materiality thresholds below which
amounts, which the originator institution would achieve credit protection is deemed not to be triggered if a
by this securitisation, is not justified by a commensurate credit event occurs;
transfer of credit risk to third parties, competent authority
may decide on a case- by-case basis that significant credit
risk shall not be considered to have been transferred to third
(ii) allow for the termination of the protection due to
parties.
deterioration of the credit quality of the underlying
exposures;
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, mezzanine securitisation
positions means securitisation positions to which a risk weight (iii) other than in the case of early amortisation provisions,
lower than 1 250 % applies and that are more junior than the require positions in the securitisation to be improved by
most senior position in this securitisation and more junior than the originator institution;
any securitisation positions in this securitisation to which either
of the following is assigned in accordance with Section 4:
(iv) increase the institution's cost of credit protection or the
yield payable to holders of positions in the securiti­
(a) in the case of a securitisation position subject to Section 3, sation in response to a deterioration in the credit
Sub-section 3 a credit quality step 1; quality of the underlying pool;
L 176/154 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) an opinion is obtained from qualified legal counsel (b) in the case of a synthetic securitisation, calculate risk-
confirming the enforceability of the credit protection in all weighted exposure amounts, and, as relevant, expected
relevant jurisdictions; loss amounts, in respect of the securitised exposures in
accordance with Articles 249 and 250.
(e) the securitisation documentation shall make clear, where
applicable, that any purchase or repurchase of securitisation
2. Where the originator institution has decided to apply
positions by the originator or sponsor beyond its
paragraph 1, it shall calculate the risk-weighted exposure
contractual obligations may only be made at arms' lengths
amounts prescribed in this Chapter for the positions that it
conditions;
may hold in the securitisation.
(f) where there is a clean-up call option, that option meets all
the following conditions: Where the originator institution has not transferred significant
credit risk or has decided not to apply paragraph 1, it need not
calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts for any positions it
(i) it is exercisable at the discretion of the originator insti­ may have in the securitisation in question but shall continue
tution; including the securitised exposures in its calculation of risk-
weighted exposure amounts as if they had not been securitised.
(ii) it may only be exercised when 10 % or less of the
original value of the exposures securitised remains
3. Where there is an exposure to different tranches in a
unamortised;
securitisation, the exposure to each tranche shall be considered
a separate securitisation position. The providers of credit
protection to securitisation positions shall be considered to
(iii) it is not structured to avoid allocating losses to credit hold positions in the securitisation. Securitisation positions
enhancement positions or other positions held by shall include exposures to a securitisation arising from interest
investors and is not otherwise structured to provide rate or currency derivative contracts.
credit enhancement.
4. Unless a securitisation position is deducted from Common
6. The competent authorities shall keep EBA informed about
Equity Tier 1 items pursuant to Article 36(1)(k), the risk-
the specific cases, referred to in paragraph 2, where the possible
weighted exposure amount shall be included in the institution's
reduction in risk-weighted exposure amounts is not justified by
total of risk-weighted exposure amounts for the purposes of
a commensurate transfer of credit risk to third parties, and the
Article 92(3).
use institutions make of paragraph 4. EBA shall monitor the
range of practices in this area and shall, in accordance with
Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, issue guidelines.
EBA shall review Member States' implementation of those
5. The risk-weighted exposure amount of a securitisation
guidelines and provide advice to the Commission by
position shall be calculated by applying to the exposure value
31 December 2017 on whether a binding technical standard
of the position, calculated as set out in Article 246, the relevant
is required.
total risk weight.
S e c t i o n 3
6. The total risk weight shall be determined as the sum of
C a l c u l a t i o n o f t h e r i s k w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e
the risk weight set out in this Chapter and any additional risk
a m o u n t s
weight in accordance with Article 407.
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
P r i n c i p l e s
Article 246
Article 245
Exposure value
Calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts
1. The exposure value shall be calculated as follows:
1. Where an originator institution has transferred significant
credit risk associated with securitised exposures in accordance
with Section 2, that institution may:
(a) where an institution calculates risk-weighted exposure
amounts under Sub-section 3, the exposure value of an
(a) in the case of a traditional securitisation, exclude from its on-balance sheet securitisation position shall be its
calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts, and, as accounting value remaining after specific credit risk
relevant, expected loss amounts, the exposures which it adjustments treated in accordance with Article 110 have
has securitised; been applied;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/155
(b) where an institution calculates risk-weighted exposure Article 247
amounts under Sub-section 4, the exposure value of an
Recognition of credit risk mitigation for securitisation
on-balance sheet securitisation position shall be the
positions
accounting value measured without taking into account
any credit risk adjustments treated in accordance with 1. An institution may recognise funded or unfunded credit
Article 110 made; protection obtained in respect of a securitisation position in
accordance with Chapter 4 and subject to the requirements
laid down in this Chapter and in Chapter 4.
(c) where an institution calculates risk-weighted exposure
amounts under Sub-section 3, the exposure value of an Eligible funded credit protection is limited to financial collateral
off-balance sheet securitisation position shall be its which is eligible for the calculation of risk-weighted exposure
nominal value, less any specific credit risk adjustment of amounts under Chapter 2 as laid down under Chapter 4 and
that securitisation position, multiplied by a conversion recognition is subject to compliance with the relevant
factor as prescribed in this Chapter. The conversion factor requirements as laid down under Chapter 4.
shall be 100 % unless otherwise specified;
2. Eligible unfunded credit protection and unfunded credit
protection providers are limited to those which are eligible
(d) where an institution calculates risk-weighted exposure under Chapter 4 and recognition is subject to compliance
amounts under Sub-section 4, the exposure value of an with the relevant requirements laid down under Chapter 4.
off-balance sheet securitisation position shall be its
nominal value multiplied by a conversion factor as
prescribed in this Chapter. The conversion factor shall be
3. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the eligible
100 % unless otherwise specified;
providers of unfunded credit protection listed in points (a) to
(h) of Article 201(1) except for qualifying central counterparties
shall have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI which has
been determined to be associated with credit quality step 3 or
above under Article 136 and shall have been associated with
(e) The exposure value for the counterparty credit risk of a
credit quality step 2 or above at the time the credit protection
derivative instrument listed in Annex II, shall be determined
was first recognised. Institutions that have a permission to apply
in accordance with Chapter 6.
the IRB Approach to a direct exposure to the protection
provider may assess eligibility according to the first sentence
based on the equivalence of the PD for the protection
provider to the PD associated with the credit quality steps
2. Where an institution has two or more overlapping referred to in Article 136.
positions in a securitisation, it shall, to the extent that they
overlap include in its calculation of risk-weighted exposure
amounts only the position or portion of a position producing
4. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, SSPEs are eligible
the higher risk-weighted exposure amounts. The institution may
protection providers where they own assets that qualify as
also recognise such overlap between specific risk own funds
eligible financial collateral and to which there are no rights or
requirements for positions in the trading book and own funds
contingent rights preceding or ranking pari passu to the
requirements for securitisation positions in the non-trading
contingent rights of the institution receiving unfunded credit
book, provided that the institution is able to calculate and
protection and all requirements for the recognition of
compare the own funds requirements for the relevant positions.
financial collateral in Chapter 4 are fulfilled. In those cases,
For the purpose of this paragraph, overlapping occurs when the
GA (the amount of the protection adjusted for any currency
positions, wholly or partially, represent an exposure to the same
mismatch and maturity mismatch in accordance with the
risk such that, to the extent of the overlap, there is a single
provisions of Chapter 4) shall be limited to the volatility
exposure.
adjusted market value of those assets and g (the risk weight
of exposures to the protection provider as specified under the
Standardised Approach) shall be determined as the weighted-
average risk weight that would apply to those assets as financial
3. Where Article 268(c) applies to positions in the ABCP, the collateral under the Standardised Approach.
institution may, use the risk-weight assigned to a liquidity
facility in order to calculate the risk-weighted exposure
amount for the ABCP provided that 100 % of the ABCP
Article 248
issued by the programme is covered by this or other liquidity
facilities and all of those liquidity facilities rank pari passu with Implicit support
the ABCP so that they form overlapping positions.
1. A sponsor institution, or an originator institution which
in respect of a securitisation has made use of Article 245(1) and
(2) in the calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts or has
sold instruments from its trading book to the effect that it is no
The institution shall notify to the competent authorities the use longer required to hold own funds for the risks of those
it makes of that treatment. instruments shall not, with a view to reducing potential or
L 176/156 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
actual losses to investors, provide support to the securitisation securitisation in accordance with the provisions of this
beyond its contractual obligations. A transaction shall not be Section including those for which the institution recognises
considered to provide support if it is executed at arm's length credit risk mitigation in accordance with Article 247, in
conditions and taken into account in the assessment of which case the risk-weight to be applied to that position may
significant risk transfer. Any such transaction shall be, regardless be amended in accordance with Chapter 4, subject to the
of whether it provides support, notified to the competent auth­ requirements laid down in this Chapter.
orities and subject to the institution's credit review and approval
process. The institution shall, when assessing whether the trans­
action is not structured to provide support, adequately consider Article 250
at least all the following:
Treatment of maturity mismatches in synthetic securiti­
sations
(a) the price of the repurchase; For the purposes of calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
in accordance with Article 249, any maturity mismatch between
the credit protection which constitutes a tranche and by which
the transfer of risk is achieved and the securitised exposures
(b) the institution's capital and liquidity position before and
shall be taken into consideration as follows:
after repurchase;
(a) the maturity of the securitised exposures shall be taken to
(c) the performance of the securitised exposures;
be the longest maturity of any of those exposures subject to
a maximum of five years. The maturity of the credit
protection shall be determined in accordance with
(d) the performance of the securitisation positions; Chapter 4;
(e) the impact of support on the losses expected to be incurred (b) an originator institution shall ignore any maturity mismatch
by the originator relative to investors. in calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts for tranches
appearing pursuant to this Section with a risk weighting of
1 250 %. For all other tranches, the maturity mismatch
treatment set out in Chapter 4 shall be applied in
2. EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation
accordance with the following formula:
(EU) No 1093/2010, issue guidelines on what constitutes
arm's length conditions and when a transaction is not
structured to provide support.
3. If an originator institution or a sponsor institution fails to t – t ä T – t
comply with paragraph 1 in respect of a securitisation this RW ä ¼ RW SP · T – t þ RW Ass · T – t
institution shall at a minimum hold own funds against all of
ä ä
the securitised exposures as if they had not been securitised.
where:
S u b - S e c t i o n 2
RW* = risk-weighted exposure amounts for the purposes
O r i g i n a t o r i n s t i t u t i o n s ' c a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k -
of Article 92(3)(a);
w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e a m o u n t s s e c u r i t i s e d i n a
s y n t h e t i c s e c u r i t i s a t i o n
Article 249 RW
Ass
= risk-weighted exposure amounts for exposures if
they had not been securitised, calculated on a
General treatment
pro-rata basis;
In calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts for the
securitised exposures, where the conditions in Article 244 are
met, the originator institution of a synthetic securitisation shall, RW SP = risk-weighted exposure amounts calculated under
subject to Article 250, use the relevant calculation method­ Article 249 if there was no maturity mismatch;
ologies set out in this Section and not those set out in
Chapter 2. For institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure
amounts and expected loss amounts under Chapter 3, the T = maturity of the underlying exposures expressed in
expected loss amount in respect of such exposures shall be zero. years;
The requirements set out in the first subparagraph apply to the t = maturity of credit protection. expressed in years;
entire pool of exposures included in the securitisation. Subject
to Article 250, the originator institution shall calculate risk-
weighted exposure amounts in respect of all tranches in the t* = 0,25.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/157
S u b - S e c t i o n 3 Article 253
C a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k - w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e a m o u n t s Treatment of unrated positions
u n d e r t h e S t a n d a r d i s e d A p p r o a c h
1. For the purpose of calculating the risk-weighted exposure
Article 251 amount of an unrated securitisation position an institution may
apply the weighted-average risk weight that would be applied to
Risk-weights
the securitised exposures under Chapter 2 by an institution
Subject to Article 252, the institution shall calculate the risk- holding the exposures, multiplied by the concentration ratio
weighted exposure amount of a rated securitisation or re-secu­ referred to in paragraph 2. For this purpose, the institution
ritisation position by applying the relevant risk weight to the shall know the composition of the pool of securitised
exposure value. exposures securitised at all times.
2. The concentration ratio shall be equal to the sum of the
nominal amounts of all the tranches divided by the sum of the
The relevant risk weight shall be the risk weight as laid down in
nominal amounts of the tranches junior to or pari passu with
Table 1, with which the credit assessment of the position is
the tranche in which the position is held including that tranche
associated in accordance with Section 4.
itself. The resulting risk weight shall not be higher than 1 250 %
or lower than any risk weight applicable to a rated more senior
tranche. Where the institution is unable to determine the risk
weights that would be applied to the securitised exposures
Table 1 under Chapter 2, it shall apply a risk weight of 1 250 % to
the position.
Credit Quality 1 2 3 4 (only all other
Step for credit credit
assessme­ quality
Article 254
nts other steps
than Treatment of securitisation positions in a second loss
short-
tranche or better in an ABCP programme
term
credit Subject to the availability of a more favourable treatment for
assess­ unrated liquidity facilities under Article 255 an institution may
ments)
apply to securitisation positions meeting the following
conditions a risk weight that is the greater of 100 % or the
Securitisation 20 % 50 % 100 % 350 % 1 250 %
highest of the risk weights that would be applied to any of
positions
the securitised exposures under Chapter 2 by an institution
Re-securitisation 40 % 100 % 225 % 650 % 1 250 %
holding the exposures:
positions
(a) the securitisation position shall be in a tranche which is
economically in a second loss position or better in the
Subject to Articles 252 to 255, the risk-weighted exposure
securitisation and the first loss tranche shall provide mean­
amount of an unrated securitisation position shall be calculated
ingful credit enhancement to the second loss tranche;
by applying a risk weight of 1 250 %.
(b) the quality of the securitisation position shall be equivalent
to credit quality step 3 under the Standardised Approach or
Article 252
better;
Originator and sponsor institutions
For an originator institution or sponsor institution, the risk- (c) the securitisation position shall be held by an institution
weighted exposure amounts calculated in respect of its securiti­ which does not hold a position in the first loss tranche.
sation positions in any one securitisation may be limited to the
risk-weighted exposure amounts which would currently be
calculated for the securitised exposures had they not been
Article 255
securitised subject to the presumed application of a 150 %
risk weight to the following: Treatment of unrated liquidity facilities
1. Institutions may apply a conversion factor of 50 % to the
nominal amount of an unrated liquidity facility in order to
determine its exposure value when the following conditions
(a) all items currently in default; are met:
(a) the liquidity facility documentation shall clearly identify and
(b) all items associated with particularly high risk in accordance limit the circumstances under which the facility may be
with Article 128 amongst the securitised exposures. drawn;
L 176/158 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) it shall not be possible for the facility to be drawn so as to For securitisation structures where the securitised exposures
provide credit support by covering losses already incurred at comprise revolving and non-revolving exposures, an originator
the time of draw and in particular not so as to provide institution shall apply the treatment set out in paragraphs 3 to
liquidity in respect of exposures in default at the time of 6 to that portion of the underlying pool containing revolving
draw or so as to acquire assets at more than fair value; exposures.
(c) the facility shall not be used to provide permanent or The exposure value of the originator's interest shall be the
regular funding for the securitisation; exposure value of that notional part of a pool of drawn
amounts sold into a securitisation, the proportion of which in
relation to the amount of the total pool sold into the structure
determines the proportion of the cash flows generated by
(d) repayment of draws on the facility shall not be subordinated
principal and interest collections and other associated
to the claims of investors other than to claims arising in
amounts which are not available to make payments to those
respect of interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees
having securitisation positions in the securitisation. The orig­
or other such payments, nor be subject to waiver or
inator's interest shall not be subordinate to the investors'
deferral;
interest. The exposure value of the investors' interest shall be
the exposure value of the remaining notional part of the pool of
drawn amounts.
(e) it shall not be possible for the facility to be drawn after all
applicable credit enhancements from which the liquidity
facility would benefit are exhausted;
The risk-weighted exposure amount in respect of the exposure
value of the originator's interest shall be calculated as that for a
pro rata exposure to the securitised exposures as if they had not
(f) the facility shall include a provision that results in an been securitised.
automatic reduction in the amount that can be drawn by
the amount of exposures that are in default, where 'default'
has the meaning given to it under Chapter 3, or where the
3. Originators of the following types of securitisation are
pool of securitised exposures consists of rated instruments,
exempt from the calculation of an additional risk-weighted
that terminates the facility if the average quality of the pool
exposure amount in paragraph 1:
falls below investment grade.
(a) securitisations of revolving exposures whereby investors
The risk weight to be applied shall be the highest risk weight
remain fully exposed to all future draws by borrowers so
that would be applied to any of the securitised exposures under
that the risk on the underlying facilities does not return to
Chapter 2 by an institution holding the exposures.
the originator institution even after an early amortisation
event has occurred;
2. To determine the exposure value of cash advance facilities,
a conversion factor of 0 % may be applied to the nominal
(b) securitisations where any early amortisation provision is
amount of a liquidity facility that is unconditionally cancellable
solely triggered by events not related to the performance
provided that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 are satisfied
of the securitised assets or the originator institution, such as
and that repayment of draws on the facility are senior to any
material changes in tax laws or regulations.
other claims on the cash flows arising from the securitised
exposures.
4. For an originator institution subject to the calculation of
an additional risk-weighted exposure amount in accordance
Article 256
with paragraph 1 the total of the risk-weighted exposure
Additional own funds requirements for securitisations of amounts in respect of its positions in the investors' interest
revolving exposures with early amortisation provisions and the risk-weighted exposure amounts calculated under
paragraph 1 shall be no greater than the greater of:
1. Where there is a securitisation of revolving exposures
subject to an early amortisation provision, the originator insti­
tution shall calculate an additional risk-weighted exposure
amount in respect of the risk that the levels of credit risk to (a) the risk-weighted exposure amounts calculated in respect of
which it is exposed may increase following the operation of the its positions in the investors' interest;
early amortisation provision, in accordance with this Article.
(b) the risk-weighted exposure amounts that would be
2. The institution shall calculate a risk-weighted exposure calculated in respect of the securitised exposures by an
amount in respect of the sum of the exposure values of the institution holding the exposures as if they had not been
originator's interest and the investors' interest. securitised in an amount equal to the investors' interest.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/159
Deduction of net gains, if any, arising from the capitalisation of Table 2
future income required under Article 32(1), shall be treated
outside the maximum amount indicated in the preceding Securitisations
Securitisations
subparagraph. subject to a subject to a
non-controlled
controlled early
early
amortisation
amortisation
provision
provision
5. The risk-weighted exposure amount to be calculated in
accordance with paragraph 1 shall be determined by multi­ Three months average excess spread Conversion factor Conversion factor
plying the exposure value of the investors' interest by the
product of the appropriate conversion factor as indicated in Above level A 0 % 0 %
paragraphs 6 to 9 and the weighted average risk weight that
would apply to the securitised exposures if the exposures had Level A 1 % 5 %
not been securitised.
Level B 2 % 15 %
Level C 10 % 50 %
An early amortisation provision shall be considered to be
controlled where all of the following conditions are met: Level D 20 % 100 %
Level E 40 % 100 %
(a) the originator institution has an appropriate own funds/
liquidity plan in place to ensure that it has sufficient own
Where:
funds and liquidity available in the event of an early amor­
tisation;
(a) 'Level A' refers to levels of excess spread less than 133,33 %
of the trapping level of excess spread but not less than
(b) throughout the duration of the transaction there is pro-rata 100 % of that trapping level;
sharing between the originator's interest and the investor's
interest of payments of interest and principal, expenses,
losses and recoveries based on the balance of receivables
(b) 'Level B' refers to levels of excess spread less than 100 % of
outstanding at one or more reference points during each
the trapping level of excess spread but not less than 75 % of
month;
that trapping level;
(c) the amortisation period is considered sufficient for 90 % of (c) 'Level C' refers to levels of excess spread less than 75 % of
the total debt (originator's and investors' interest) the trapping level of excess spread but not less than 50 % of
outstanding at the beginning of the early amortisation that trapping level;
period to have been repaid or recognised as in default;
(d) 'Level D' refers to levels of excess spread less than 50 % of
(d) the speed of repayment is no more rapid than would be the trapping level of excess spread but not less than 25 % of
achieved by straight-line amortisation over the period set that trapping level;
out in point (c).
(e) 'Level E' refers to levels of excess spread less than 25 % of
the trapping level of excess spread.
6. In the case of securitisations subject to an early amorti­
sation provision of retail exposures which are uncommitted and
unconditionally cancellable without prior notice, where the early
amortisation is triggered by the excess spread level falling to a 7. In the case of securitisations subject to an early amorti­
specified level, institutions shall compare the three-month zation provision of retail exposures which are uncommitted and
average excess spread level with the excess spread levels at unconditionally cancellable without prior notice and where the
which excess spread is required to be trapped. early amortization is triggered by a quantitative value in respect
of something other than the three months average excess
spread, subject to permission by the competent authorities,
institutions may apply a treatment which approximates closely
Where the securitisation does not require excess spread to be
to that prescribed in paragraph 6 for determining the
trapped, the trapping point is deemed to be 4,5 percentage
conversion factor indicated. The competent authority shall
points greater than the excess spread level at which an early
grant permission, if the following conditions are met:
amortisation is triggered.
(a) that treatment is more appropriate because the institution
The conversion factor to be applied shall be determined by the can establish a quantitative measure equivalent, in relation
level of the actual three month average excess spread in to the quantitative value triggering early amortisation, to the
accordance with Table 2. trapping level of excess spread;
L 176/160 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) that treatment leads to a measure of the risk that the credit (b) for an unrated position the institution may use the Super­
risk to which the institution is exposed may increase visory Formula Method set out in Article 262 where it can
following the operation of the early amortisation produce estimates of PD, and where applicable exposure
provision that is as prudent as that calculated in accordance value and LGD as inputs into the Supervisory Formula
with paragraph 6. Method in accordance with the requirements for the esti­
mation of those parameters under the Internal Ratings
Based approach in accordance with Section 3. An institution
other than the originator institution may only use the
8. All other securitisations subject to a controlled early
Supervisory Formula Method subject to the prior permission
amortisation provision of revolving exposures shall be subject
of the competent authorities, which shall only be granted
to a conversion factor of 90 %.
where the institution fulfils the condition provided in the
first sentence of this point;
9. All other securitisations subject to a non-controlled early
amortisation provision of revolving exposures shall be subject
to a conversion factor of 100 %. (c) as an alternative to point (b) and only for unrated positions
in ABCP programmes, the institution may use the Internal
Assessment Approach as set out in paragraph 4 if the
competent authorities have permitted it to do so;
Article 257
Credit risk mitigation for securitisation positions subject to
the Standardised Approach
(d) in all other cases, a risk weight of 1 250 % shall be assigned
Where credit protection is obtained on a securitisation position,
to securitisation positions which are unrated;
the calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts may be
amended in accordance with Chapter 4.
(e) notwithstanding point (d), and subject to the prior
Article 258 permission by the competent authorities, an institution
may calculate the risk weight for an unrated position in
Reduction in risk-weighted exposure amounts
an ABCP programme in accordance with Article 253 or
254, if the unrated position is not in commercial paper
Where a securitisation position is assigned a 1 250 % risk
and falls within the scope of application of an Internal
weight, institutions may in accordance with Article 36(1)(k),
Assessment Approach for which permission is being
as an alternative to including the position in their calculation
sought. The aggregated exposure values treated by this
of risk-weighted exposure amounts, deduct from Common
exception shall not be material and in any case less than
Equity Tier 1 capital the exposure value of the position. For
10 % of the aggregate exposure values treated by the insti­
these purposes, the calculation of the exposure value may reflect
tution under the Internal Assessment Approach. The insti­
eligible funded credit protection in a manner consistent with
tution shall stop making use of this when the permission
Article 257.
for the relevant Internal Assessment Approach has been
refused.
Where an originator institution makes use of this alternative, it
may subtract 12.5 times the amount deducted in accordance
with Article 36(1)(k) from the amount specified in Article 252 2. For the purposes of using inferred ratings, an institution
as the risk-weighted exposure amount which would currently be shall attribute to an unrated position an inferred credit
calculated for the securitised exposures had they not been assessment equivalent to the credit assessment of a rated
securitised. reference position which is the most senior position which is
in all respects subordinate to the unrated securitisation position
in question and meets all of the following conditions:
S u b - S e c t i o n 4
C a l c u l a t i o n o f r i s k - w e i g h t e d e x p o s u r e a m o u n t s
u n d e r t h e I R B A p p r o a c h (a) the reference positions shall be subordinate in all respects to
the unrated securitisation position;
Article 259
Hierarchy of methods
1. Institutions shall use the methods in accordance with the
(b) the maturity of the reference positions shall be equal to or
following hierarchy:
longer than that of the unrated position in question;
(a) for a rated position or a position in respect of which an
inferred rating may be used, the Ratings Based Method set (c) on an ongoing basis, any inferred rating shall be updated to
out in Article 261 shall be used to calculate the risk- reflect any changes in the credit assessment of the reference
weighted exposure amount; positions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/161
3. The competent authorities shall grant institutions (i) the ABCP programme shall incorporate underwriting
permission to use the 'Internal Assessment Approach' as set standards in the form of credit and investment guidelines.
out in paragraph 4 where all of the following conditions are In deciding on an asset purchase, the ABCP programme
met: administrator shall consider the type of asset being
purchased, the type and monetary value of the exposures
arising from the provision of liquidity facilities and credit
enhancements, the loss distribution, and the legal and
(a) positions in the commercial paper issued from the ABCP
economic isolation of the transferred assets from the
programme shall be rated positions;
entity selling the assets. A credit analysis of the asset
seller's risk profile shall be performed and shall include
analysis of past and expected future financial performance,
(b) the internal assessment of the credit quality of the position
current market position, expected future competitiveness,
shall reflect the publicly available assessment methodology
leverage, cash flow, interest coverage and debt rating. In
of one or more ECAIs, for the rating of securities backed
addition, a review of the seller's underwriting standards,
by the exposures of the type securitised;
servicing capabilities, and collection processes shall be
performed;
(c) the ECAIs, the methodology of which shall be reflected as
required by point (b), shall include those ECAIs which have
provided an external rating for the commercial paper issued (j) the ABCP programme's underwriting standards shall
from the ABCP programme. Quantitative elements, such as establish minimum asset eligibility criteria that, in
stress factors, used in assessing the position to a particular particular:
credit quality shall be at least as conservative as those used
in the relevant assessment methodology of the ECAIs in
question;
(i) exclude the purchase of assets that are significantly
past due or defaulted;
(d) in developing its internal assessment methodology the
institution shall take into consideration relevant published
ratings methodologies of the ECAIs that rate the
(ii) limit excess concentration to individual obligor or
commercial paper of the ABCP programme. This
geographic area;
consideration shall be documented by the institution and
updated regularly, as outlined in point (g);
(iii) limits the tenor of the assets to be purchased;
(e) the institution's internal assessment methodology shall
include rating grades. There shall be a correspondence
between such rating grades and the credit assessments of
ECAIs. This correspondence shall be explicitly documented; (k) the ABCP programme shall have collections policies and
processes that take into account the operational capability
and credit quality of the servicer. The ABCP programme
(f) the internal assessment methodology shall be used in the shall mitigate risk relating to the performance of the seller
institution's internal risk management processes, including and the servicer through various methods, such as triggers
its decision making, management information and internal based on current credit quality that would preclude
capital allocation processes; commingling of funds;
(g) internal or external auditors, an ECAI, or the institution's
(l) the aggregated estimate of loss on an asset pool that the
internal credit review or risk management function shall
ABCP programme is considering purchasing shall take into
perform regular reviews of the internal assessment
account all sources of potential risk, such as credit and
process and the quality of the internal assessments of the
dilution risk. If the seller-provided credit enhancement is
credit quality of the institution's exposures to an ABCP
sized based only on credit-related losses, then a separate
programme. If the institution's internal audit, credit
reserve shall be established for dilution risk, if dilution risk
review, or risk management functions perform the
is material for the particular exposure pool. In addition, in
review, then these functions shall be independent of the
sizing the required enhancement level, the program shall
ABCP programme business line, as well as the customer
review several years of historical information, including
relationship;
losses, delinquencies, dilutions, and the turnover rate of
the receivables;
(h) the institution shall track the performance of its internal
ratings over time to evaluate the performance of its internal
assessment methodology and shall make adjustments, as (m) the ABCP programme shall incorporate structural features,
necessary, to that methodology when the performance of such as wind-down triggers, into the purchase of exposures
the exposures routinely diverges from that indicated by the in order to mitigate potential credit deterioration of the
internal ratings; underlying portfolio.
L 176/162 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Under the Internal Assessment Approach, the unrated Re-securitisation
Credit Quality Step Securitisation Positions
position shall be assigned by the institution to one of the Positions
rating grades laid down in point (e) of paragraph 3. The
Credit
position shall be attributed a derived rating the same as the Short term
assessments
credit assessments corresponding to that rating grade as laid other than credit A B C D E
assessments
down in point (e) of paragraph 3. Where this derived rating short term
is, at the inception of the securitisation, at the level of
3 10 % 18 % 35 % 35 % 50 %
investment grade or better, it shall be considered the same as
an eligible credit assessment by an ECAI for the purposes of
4 2 12 % 20 % 40 % 65 %
calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts.
5 20 % 35 % 60 % 100 %
5. Institutions which have obtained permission to use the 6 35 % 50 % 100 % 150 %
Internal Assessment Approach shall not revert to the use of
7 3 60 % 75 % 150 % 225 %
other methods unless all of the following conditions are met:
8 100 % 200 % 350 %
(a) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the 9 250 % 300 % 500 %
competent authority that the institution has good cause to
do so; 10 425 % 500 % 650 %
11 650 % 750 % 850 %
(b) the institution has received the prior permission of the all other and unrated 1 250 %
competent authority.
The weightings in column C of Table 4 shall be applied where
Article 260
the securitisation position is not a re-securitisation position and
Maximum risk-weighted exposure amounts where the effective number of exposures securitised is less than
six.
An originator institution, a sponsor institution, or other insti­
tutions which can calculate KIRB may limit the risk-weighted
exposure amounts calculated in respect of its positions in a
For the remainder of the securitisation positions that are not re-
securitisation to that which would produce a own funds
securitisation positions, the weightings in column B shall be
requirement under Article 92(3) equal to the sum of 8 % of
applied unless the position is in the most senior tranche of a
the risk-weighted exposure amounts which would be produced
securitisation, in which case the weightings in column A shall
if the securitised assets had not been securitised and were on the
be applied.
balance sheet of the institution plus the expected loss amounts
of those exposures.
For re-securitisation positions the weightings in column E shall
Article 261 be applied unless the re-securitisation position is in the most
senior tranche of the re-securitisation and none of the
Ratings Based Method underlying exposures are themselves re-securitisation exposures,
in which case column D shall be applied.
1. Under the Ratings Based Method, the institution shall
calculate the risk-weighted exposure amount of a rated securiti­
sation or re-securitisation position by applying the relevant risk
weight to the exposure value and multiplying the result by 1,06. When determining whether a tranche is the most senior, it is
not required to take into consideration amounts due under
interest rate or currency derivative contracts, fees due, or
The relevant risk weight shall be the risk weight as laid down in other similar payments.
Table 4, with which the credit assessment of the position is
associated in accordance with Section 4.
In calculating the effective number of exposures securitised
multiple exposures to one obligor shall be treated as one
Table 4 exposure. The effective number of exposures is calculated as:
Re-securitisation
Credit Quality Step Securitisation Positions 2
Positions
EAD
i
a os ts heC esr s re m d ti het n
a
nts aS sh so
ec
sr
r
st
e
m
dt ie etr nm
ts
A B C D E
N ¼8 >>: Xi
i
EAD2
i
9 >>;
short term X
1 1 7 % 12 % 20 % 20 % 30 %
ew xh pe or se
u
rE eA
s
D
to i
re thp er es
it
e hn t os bt lih ge
o
rs .u m
If
to hf
e
t ph oe rte fx op lio os u sr he
a
rv ea l au se ss
o
co if
a
ta el dl
2 8 % 15 % 25 % 25 % 40 %
with the largest exposure, C
1
, is available, the institution may
compute N as 1/C
1
.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/163
2. Credit risk mitigation on securitisation positions may be recognised in accordance with Article 264(1)
and (4), subject to the conditions in Article 247.
Article 262
Supervisory Formula Method
1. Under the Supervisory Formula Method, the risk weight for a securitisation position shall be calculated
as follows subject to a floor of 20 % for re-securitisation positions and 7 % for all other securitisation
positions:
S L T – S L
12:5 · þ â â
T
Ü Ü
where:
x, when x ≤ K
I RBR
S[x] =
8 < K IRBR þ K x â – K K IRBR â þ
8
1 – exp
8
ω · ðK K I IR RB BR
R
– x Þ
9 9
· d · K ω I RBR , when x > K I RBR
: Ü Ü >>>: >>>: >>>; >>>;
where:
h 1 –
K
IRBR
N
¼ ELGD
8 9
c
K>>:
IR BR
>>;
¼ 1 – h
v
ðELGD – K
IRBR Þ
· K
IRBR þ
0,25 · ð1 – ELGD
Þ
· K
IRBR
¼ N
f
v
þ
K 2
IR BR – c2
ð1 – K
IRBR Þ
· K
IRBR
– ν
¼ 1 – h þ 1 – h · τ
8 9 ð Þ
>>:1
– c · c
>>;
g ð Þ – 1
¼ f
a g · c
¼
b g · 1 – c
¼ ð Þ
d 1 – 1 – h · 1 – Beta K
IRBR
; a; b
¼ ð Þ ð âÞ
Ü
K x 1 – h · 1 – Beta x; a; b · x Beta x; a 1; b · c
â ¼ ð Þ â þ þ â
Ü ÄÄ Ü Ö Ü Ö
τ = 1 000;
ω = 20;
Beta [x; a, b] = the cumulative beta distribution with parameters a and b evaluated at x;
T = the thickness of the tranche in which the position is held, measured as the ratio of (a) the nominal
amount of the tranche to (b) the sum of the nominal amounts of the exposures that have been
securitised. For derivative instruments listed in Annex II, the sum of the current replacement cost
and the potential future credit exposure calculated in accordance with Chapter 6 shall be used in place
of the nominal amount;
L 176/164 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
K I RBR = the ratio of (a) K I RB to (b) the sum of the exposure C m – C 1 –1
values of the exposures that have been securitised, and N C 1 · C m · max 1 – m · C 1 ,0
¼ þ m – 1
is expressed in decimal form; 8 8 9 n o 9
>>: >>: >>; >>;
1
N
¼ C
1
L = the credit enhancement level, measured as the ratio of the
where:
nominal amount of all tranches subordinate to the tranche
in which the position is held to the sum of the nominal
amounts of the exposures that have been securitised. Capi­
talised future income shall not be included in the measured C
m
= the ratio of the sum of the nominal amounts of the
L. Amounts due by counterparties to derivative instruments largest 'm' exposures to the sum of the nominal
listed in Annex II that represent tranches more junior than amounts of the exposures securitised. The level of 'm'
the tranche in question may be measured at their current may be set by the institution.
replacement cost, without the potential future credit
exposures, in calculating the enhancement level;
For securitisations in which materially all securitised exposures
are retail exposures, institutions may, subject to permission by
the competent authority, use the Supervisory Formula Method
using the simplifications h=0 and v=0, provided that the
N = the effective number of exposures calculated in accordance
effective number of exposures is not low and that the
with Article 261. In the case of re-securitisations, the insti­
exposures are not highly concentrated.
tution shall look at the number of securitisation exposures
in the pool and not the number of underlying exposures in
the original pools from which the underlying securitisation
exposures stem; 3. The competent authorities shall keep EBA informed about
the use institutions make of paragraph 2. EBA shall monitor the
range of practices in this area and shall, in accordance with
Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, issue guidelines.
ELGD = the exposure-weighted average loss-given-default,
calculated as follows:
4. Credit risk mitigation on securitisation positions may be
recognised in accordance with Article 264(2) to (4), subject to
the conditions in Article 247.
LGD
i
· EAD
i
ELGD Xi Article 263
¼ EAD
i Liquidity Facilities
i
X
1. For the purposes of determining the exposure value of an
where: unrated securitisation position in the form of cash advance
facilities, a conversion factor of 0 % may be applied to the
nominal amount of a liquidity facility that meets the conditions
set out in Article 255(2).
LGD
i
= the average LGD associated with all exposures to the
ith obligor, where LGD is determined in accordance
with Chapter 3. In the case of resecuritisation, an LGD
2. When it is not possible for the institution to calculate the
of 100 % shall be applied to the securitised positions.
risk-weighted exposure amounts for the securitised exposures as
When default and dilution risk for purchased
if they had not been securitised, an institution may, on an
receivables are treated in an aggregate manner
exceptional basis and subject to the permission of the
within a securitisation, the LGD
i
input shall be
competent authorities, temporarily apply the method set out
constructed as a weighted average of the LGD for
in paragraph 3 for the calculation of risk-weighted exposure
credit risk and the 75 % LGD for dilution risk. The
amounts for an unrated securitisation position in the form of
weights shall be the stand-alone own funds charges
liquidity facility that meets the conditions in Article 255(1).
for credit risk and dilution risk respectively.
Institutions shall notify the use they make of the first
sentence to the competent authorities, together with its
reasons and the intended time period of use.
2. Where the nominal amount of the largest securitised
exposure, C
1
, is no more than 3 % of the sum of the
nominal amount of the securitised exposures, then, for the The calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts shall, in
purposes of the Supervisory Formula Method, the institution general, be deemed not to be possible if an inferred rating,
may set LGD= 50 % in the case of securitisations, which are the Internal Assessment Approach and the Supervisory
not re-securitisations, and N equal to either of the following: Formula Approach are not at the institution's disposal.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/165
3. The highest risk weight that would be applied under (b) in other cases, the institution shall treat the securitisation
Chapter 2 to any of the securitised exposures, had they not position as two or more positions with the uncovered
been securitised, may be applied to the securitisation position portion being considered the position with the lower
represented by a liquidity facility that meets the conditions in credit quality. For the purposes of calculating the risk-
Article 255(1). To determine the exposure value of the position weighted exposure amount for this position, the provisions
a conversion factor of 100 % shall be applied. in Article 262 shall apply subject to the adjustment of T to
e* in the case of funded credit protection and to T-g in the
case of unfunded credit protection, where e* denotes the
ratio of E* to the total notional amount of the underlying
Article 264 pool, where E* is the adjusted exposure amount of the
securitisation position calculated in accordance with the
Credit risk mitigation for securitisation positions subject to
provisions of Chapter 4 as they apply for the calculation
the IRB Approach
of risk-weighted exposure amounts under Chapter 2 taking
1. Where risk-weighted exposure amounts are calculated the amount of the securitisation position to be E; and g is
using the Ratings Based Method, the exposure value or the the ratio of the nominal amount of credit protection,
risk-weight for a securitisation position in respect of which adjusted for any currency or maturity mismatch in
credit protection has been obtained may be amended in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 4, to the sum
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 4 as they apply for of the exposure amounts of the securitised exposures. In the
the calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts under case of unfunded credit protection the risk weight of the
Chapter 2. protection provider shall be applied to that portion of the
position not falling within the adjusted value of T.
2. In the case of full credit protection, where risk-weighted
exposure amounts are calculated using the Supervisory Formula
Method, the following requirements shall apply:
4. Where, in the case of unfunded credit protection,
competent authorities have granted the institution permission
to calculate risk-weighted exposure amounts for comparable
direct exposures to the protection provider in accordance with
(a) the institution shall determine the 'effective risk weight' of
Chapter 3, the risk weight g of exposures to the protection
the position. It shall do this by dividing the risk-weighted
provider in accordance with Article 235 shall be determined
exposure amount of the position by the exposure value of
as specified in Chapter 3.
the position and multiplying the result by 100;
(b) in the case of funded credit protection, the risk-weighted
exposure amount of the securitisation position shall be Article 265
calculated by multiplying the funded protection-adjusted
Additional own funds requirements for securitisations of
exposure amount of the position (E*), as calculated under
revolving exposures with early amortisation provisions
Chapter 4 for the calculation of risk-weighted exposure
amounts under Chapter 2 taking the amount of the secu­ 1. In addition to the risk-weighted exposure amounts
ritisation position to be E, by the effective risk weight; calculated in respect of its securitisation positions, an originator
institution shall calculate a risk-weighted exposure amount in
accordance with the methodology set out in Article 256 when
it sells revolving exposures into a securitisation that contains an
(c) in the case of unfunded credit protection, the risk-weighted early amortisation provision.
exposure amount of the securitisation position shall be
calculated by multiplying the amount of the protection
adjusted for any currency mismatch and maturity
mismatch (GA) in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4 by the risk weight of the protection provider;
2. By way of derogation from Article 256, the exposure
and adding this to the amount arrived at by multiplying
value of the originators interest shall be the sum of the
the amount of the securitisation position minus GA by
following items:
the effective risk weight.
3. In the case of partial protection, where risk-weighted
exposure amounts are calculated using the Supervisory (a) the exposure value of that notional part of a pool of drawn
Formula Method, the following requirements shall apply: amounts sold into a securitisation, the proportion of which
in relation to the amount of the total pool sold into the
structure determines the proportion of the cash flows
generated by principal and interest collections and other
(a) if the credit risk mitigation covers the first loss or losses on associated amounts which are not available to make
a proportional basis on the securitisation position, the insti­ payments to those having securitisation positions in the
tution may apply paragraph 2; securitisation;
L 176/166 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the exposure value of that part of the pool of undrawn (c) where the Supervisory Formula Method is used to calculate
amounts of the credit lines, the drawn amounts of which risk-weighted exposure amounts and L < K
I RBR
and [L+T] >
have been sold into the securitisation, the proportion of K
I RBR
the position may be treated as two positions with L
which to the total amount of such undrawn amounts is equal to K
I RBR
for the more senior of the positions.
the same as the proportion of the exposure value
described in point (a) to the exposure value of the pool
of drawn amounts sold into the securitisation.
4. Where an institution makes use of the option in
paragraph 3 it may subtract 12,5 times the amount deducted
in accordance with that paragraph from the amount specified in
The originator's interest shall not be subordinate to the Article 260 as the amount to which the risk-weighted exposure
investors' interest. amount in respect of its positions in a securitisation may be
limited.
The exposure value of the Investors' interest shall be the
exposure value of the notional part of the pool of drawn
S e c t i o n 4
amounts not falling within point (a) plus the exposure value
of that part of the pool of undrawn amounts of credit lines, the E x t e r n a l c r e d i t a s s e s s m e n t s
drawn amounts of which have been sold into the securitisation,
Article 267
not falling within point (b).
Use of Credit Assessments by ECAIs
3. The risk-weighted exposure amount in respect of the Institutions may use credit assessments to determine the risk
exposure value of the originator's interest in accordance with weight of a securitisation position only where the credit
point (a) of paragraph 2 shall be calculated as that for a pro-rata assessment has been issued or has been endorsed by an ECAI
exposure to the securitised drawn amounts exposures as if they in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009.
had not been securitised and a pro rata exposure to the
undrawn amounts of the credit lines, the drawn amounts of
which have been sold into the securitisation. Article 268
Requirements to be met by the credit assessments of
ECAIs
Article 266
For the purposes of calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
Reduction in risk-weighted exposure amounts
in accordance with Section 3, institutions shall only use a credit
1. The risk-weighted exposure amount of a securitisation assessment of an ECAI if the following conditions are met:
position to which a 1 250 % risk weight is assigned may be
reduced by 12,5 times the amount of any specific credit risk
adjustments treated in accordance with Article 110 made by the
(a) there shall be no mismatch between the types of payments
institution in respect of the securitised exposures. To the extent
reflected in the credit assessment and the types of payment
that specific credit adjustments are taken account of for this
to which the institution is entitled under the contract giving
purpose they shall not be taken account of for the purposes
rise to the securitisation position in question;
of the calculation laid down in Article 159.
(b) loss and cash-flow analysis as well as sensitivity of ratings to
2. The risk-weighted exposure amount of a securitisation
changes in the underlying ratings assumptions, including the
position may be reduced by 12,5 times the amount of any
performance of pool assets, shall be published by the ECAI
specific credit risk adjustments treated in accordance with
as well as the credit assessments, procedures, methodologies,
Article 110 made by the institution in respect of the position.
assumptions, and the key elements underpinning the
assessments in accordance with Regulation (EC)
No 1060/2009. Information that is made available only to
3. As provided in Article 36(1)(k) in respect of a securiti­
a limited number of entities shall not be considered to have
sation position in respect of which a 1 250 % risk weight
been published. The credit assessments shall be included in
applies, institutions may, as an alternative to including the
the ECAI's transition matrix;
position in their calculation of risk-weighted exposure
amounts, deduct from own funds the exposure value of the
position subject to the following:
(c) the credit assessment shall not be based or partly based on
unfunded support provided by the institution itself. In such
(a) the exposure value of the position may be derived from the case, the institution shall consider the relevant position for
risk-weighted exposure amounts taking into account any the purposes of calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
reductions made in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2; for this position in accordance with Section 3 as if it were
not rated.
(b) the calculation of the exposure value may reflect eligible
funded protection in a manner consistent with the The ECAI shall be committed to publish explanations how
methodology prescribed in Articles 247 and 264; the performance of pool assets affects this credit assessment.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/167
Article 269 (c) EBA shall consider qualitative factors such as the range of
transactions assessed by the ECAI, its methodology and the
Use of credit assessments
meaning of its credit assessments, in particular whether
1. An institution may nominate one or more ECAIs the based on expected loss or first Euro loss, and to timely
credit assessments of which shall be used in the calculation of payment of interest or to ultimate payment of interest;
its risk-weighted exposure amounts under this Chapter (a
'nominated ECAI').
(d) EBA shall seek to ensure that securitisation positions to
which the same risk weight is applied on the basis of the
2. An institution shall use credit assessments consistently and
credit assessments of ECAIs are subject to equivalent degrees
not selectively in respect of its securitisation positions, in
of credit risk. EBA shall consider amending its deter­
accordance with the following principles:
mination as to the credit quality step with which a
particular credit assessment shall be associated, as appro­
priate.
(a) an institution may not use an ECAI's credit assessments for
its positions in some tranches and another ECAI's credit
assessments for its positions in other tranches within the
same securitisation that may or may not be rated by the EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
first ECAI; to the Commission by 1 July 2014.
(b) where a position has two credit assessments by nominated
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
ECAIs, the institution shall use the less favourable credit
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
assessment;
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(c) where a position has more than two credit assessments by
nominated ECAIs, the two most favourable credit
assessments shall be used. If the two most favourable CHAPTER 6
assessments are different, the less favourable of the two
shall be used; Counterparty credit risk
S e c t i o n 1
(d) an institution shall not actively solicit the withdrawal of less D e f i n i t i o n s
favourable ratings.
Article 271
Determination of the exposure value
3. Where credit protection eligible under Chapter 4 is
1. An institution shall determine the exposure value of
provided directly to the SSPE, and that protection is reflected
derivative instruments listed in Annex II in accordance with
in the credit assessment of a position by a nominated ECAI, the
this Chapter.
risk weight associated with that credit assessment may be used.
Where the protection is not eligible under Chapter 4, the credit
assessment shall not be recognised. Where the credit protection
is not provided to the SSPE but directly to a securitisation 2. An institution may determine the exposure value of
position, the credit assessment shall not be recognised. repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending or
borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and
margin lending transactions in accordance with this Chapter
Article 270 instead of making use of Chapter 4.
Mapping
EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to
Article 272
determine, for all ECAIs, which of the credit quality steps set
out in this Chapter are associated with the relevant credit Definitions
assessments of an ECAI. Those determinations shall be
objective and consistent, and carried out in accordance with For the purposes of this Chapter and of Title VI of this Part, the
the following principles: following definitions shall apply:
(a) EBA shall differentiate between the relative degrees of risk
General terms
expressed by each assessment;
(b) EBA shall consider quantitative factors, such as default (1) 'counterparty credit risk' or 'CCR' means the risk that the
and/or loss rates and the historical performance of credit counterparty to a transaction could default before the final
assessments of each ECAI across different asset classes; settlement of the transaction's cash flows;
L 176/168 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Transaction types (8) 'margin threshold' means the largest amount of an
exposure that remains outstanding before one party has
the right to call for collateral;
(2) 'long settlement transactions' means transactions where a
counterparty undertakes to deliver a security, a commodity,
or a foreign exchange amount against cash, other financial (9) 'margin period of risk' means the time period from the
instruments, or commodities, or vice versa, at a settlement most recent exchange of collateral covering a netting set of
or delivery date specified by contract that is later than the transactions with a defaulting counterparty until the trans­
market standard for this particular type of transaction or actions are closed out and the resulting market risk is re-
five business days after the date on which the institution hedged;
enters into the transaction, whichever is earlier;
(10) 'effective maturity under the Internal Model Method for a
(3) 'margin lending transactions' means transactions in which netting set with maturity greater than one year' means the
an institution extends credit in connection with the ratio of the sum of expected exposure over the life of the
purchase, sale, carrying or trading of securities. Margin transactions in the netting set discounted at the risk-free
lending transactions do not include other loans that are rate of return, divided by the sum of expected exposure
secured by collateral in the form of securities; over one year in a netting set discounted at the risk-free
rate.
Netting set, hedging sets, and related terms
This effective maturity may be adjusted to reflect rollover
risk by replacing expected exposure with effective expected
exposure for forecasting horizons under one year;
(4) 'netting set' means a group of transactions between an
institution and a single counterparty that is subject to a
legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement that is
recognised under Section 7 and Chapter 4. (11) 'cross-product netting' means the inclusion of transactions
of different product categories within the same netting set
pursuant to the Cross-Product Netting rules set out in this
Chapter;
Each transaction that is not subject to a legally enforceable
bilateral netting arrangement which is recognised under
Section 7 shall be treated as its own netting set for the
purposes of this Chapter. (12) 'Current Market Value' (hereinafter referred to as 'CMV')
for the purposes of Section 5 refers to the net market
value of the portfolio of transactions within a netting
set, where both positive and negative market values are
Under the Internal Model Method set out in Section 6, all used in computing the CMV;
netting sets with a single counterparty may be treated as a
single netting set if negative simulated market values of the
individual netting sets are set to 0 in the estimation of
expected exposure (hereinafter referred to as 'EE'); Distributions
(5) 'risk position' means a risk number that is assigned to a (13) 'distribution of market values' means the forecast of the
transaction under the Standardised Method set out in probability distribution of net market values of trans­
Section5 following a predetermined algorithm; actions within a netting set for a future date (the fore­
casting horizon), given the realised market value of those
transactions at the date of the forecast;
(6) 'hedging set' means a group of risk positions arising from
the transactions within a single netting set, where only the
balance of those risk positions is used for determining the (14) 'distribution of exposures' means the forecast of the prob­
exposure value under the Standardised Method set out in ability distribution of market values that is generated by
Section 5; setting forecast instances of negative net market values
equal to zero;
(7) 'margin agreement' means an agreement or provisions of
an agreement under which one counterparty must supply (15) 'risk-neutral distribution' means a distribution of market
collateral to a second counterparty when an exposure of values or exposures over a future time period where the
that second counterparty to the first counterparty exceeds distribution is calculated using market implied values such
a specified level; as implied volatilities;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/169
(16) 'actual distribution' means a distribution of market values CCR related risks
or exposures at a future time period where the distribution
is calculated using historic or realised values such as vola­
tilities calculated using past price or rate changes;
(23) 'rollover risk' means the amount by which EPE is under­
stated when future transactions with a counterparty are
expected to be conducted on an ongoing basis.
Exposure measures and adjustments
The additional exposure generated by those future trans­
actions is not included in calculation of EPE;
(17) 'current exposure' means the larger of zero and the market
value of a transaction or portfolio of transactions within a
(24) 'counterparty' for the purposes of Section 7 means any
netting set with a counterparty that would be lost upon
legal or natural person that enters into a netting
the default of the counterparty, assuming no recovery on
agreement, and has the contractual capacity to do so;
the value of those transactions in insolvency or liquidation;
(25) 'contractual cross product netting agreement' means a
bilateral contractual agreement between an institution
(18) 'peak exposure' means a high percentile of the distribution
and a counterparty which creates a single legal obligation
of exposures at particular future date before the maturity
(based on netting of covered transactions) covering all
date of the longest transaction in the netting set;
bilateral master agreements and transactions belonging to
different product categories that are included within the
agreement;
(19) 'expected exposure' (hereinafter referred to as 'EE') means
the average of the distribution of exposures at a particular
For the purposes of this definition, 'different product
future date before the longest maturity transaction in the
categories' means:
netting set matures;
(a) repurchase transactions, securities and commodities
(20) 'effective expected exposure at a specific date' (hereinafter lending and borrowing transactions;
referred to as 'Effective EE') means the maximum expected
exposure that occurs at that date or any prior date. Alter­
natively, it may be defined for a specific date as the greater (b) margin lending transactions;
of the expected exposure at that date or the effective
expected exposure at any prior date;
(c) the contracts listed in Annex II;
(21) 'expected positive exposure' (hereinafter referred to as
(26) 'payment leg' means the payment agreed in an OTC
'EPE') means the weighted average over time of expected
derivative transaction with a linear risk profile which
exposures, where the weights are the proportion of the
stipulates the exchange of a financial instrument for a
entire time period that an individual expected exposure
payment.
represents.
In the case of transactions that stipulate the exchange of
payment against payment, those two payment legs shall
When calculating the own funds requirement, institutions
consist of the contractually agreed gross payments,
shall take the average over the first year or, if all the
including the notional amount of the transaction.
contracts within the netting set mature within less than
one year, over the time period until the contract with the
longest maturity in the netting set has matured;
S e c t i o n 2
M e t h o d s f o r c a l c u l a t i n g t h e e x p o s u r e
v a l u e
(22) 'effective expected positive exposure' (hereinafter referred
to as 'Effective EPE') means the weighted average of Article 273
effective expected exposure over the first year of a
Methods for calculating the exposure value
netting set or, if all the contracts within the netting set
mature within less than one year, over the time period of 1. Institutions shall determine the exposure value for the
the longest maturity contract in the netting set, where the contracts listed in Annex II on the basis of one of the
weights are the proportion of the entire time period that methods set out in Sections 3 to 6 in accordance with this
an individual expected exposure represents; Article.
L 176/170 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
An institution which is not eligible for the treatment set out in derivatives not included in the trading book and purchased as
Article 94 shall not use the method set out in Section 4. To protection against a non-trading book exposure or against a
determine the exposure value for the contracts listed in point 3 counterparty credit risk exposure where the credit protection
of Annex II an institution shall not use the method set out in is recognised under this Regulation.
Section 4. Institutions may use in combination the methods set
out in Sections 3 to 6 on a permanent basis within a group. A
single institution shall not use in combination the methods set
out in Sections 3 to 6 on a permanent basis but shall be 5. Where credit default swaps sold by an institution are
permitted to use in combination methods set out in Sections treated by an institution as credit protection provided by that
3 and 5 when one of the methods is used for the cases set out institution and are subject to own funds requirement for credit
in Article 282(6). risk of the underlying for the full notional amount, their
exposure value for the purposes of CCR in the non-trading
book shall be zero.
2. Where permitted by the competent authorities in
accordance with Article 283(1) and (2), an institution may
determine the exposure value for the following items using 6. Under all methods set out in Sections 3 to 6, the exposure
the Internal Model Method set out in Section 6: value for a given counterparty shall be equal to the sum of the
exposure values calculated for each netting set with that
counterparty.
(a) the contracts listed in Annex II;
For a given counterparty, the exposure value for a given netting
set of OTC derivative instruments listed in Annex II calculated
(b) repurchase transactions;
in accordance with this Chapter shall be the greater of zero and
the difference between the sum of exposure values across all
netting sets with the counterparty and the sum of CVA for that
counterparty being recognised by the institution as an incurred
(c) securities or commodities lending or borrowing trans­
write-down. The credit valuation adjustments shall be calculated
actions;
without taking into account any offsetting debit value
adjustment attributed to the own credit risk of the firm that
has been already excluded from own funds under
(d) margin lending transactions; Article 33(1)(c).
(e) long settlement transactions. 7. Institutions shall determine the exposure value for
exposures arising from long settlement transactions by any of
the methods set out in Sections 3 to 6, regardless of which
method the institution has chosen for treating OTC derivatives
3. When an institution purchases protection through a credit and repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending
derivative against a non-trading book exposure or against a or borrowing transactions, and margin lending transactions. In
counterparty risk exposure, it may calculate its own funds calculating the own funds requirements for long settlement
requirement for the hedged exposure in accordance with transactions, an institution that uses the approach set out in
either of the following: Chapter 3 may assign the risk weights under the approach set
out in Chapter 2 on a permanent basis and irrespective of the
materiality of such positions.
(a) Articles 233 to 236;
8. For the methods set out in Sections 3 and 4, the insti­
tution shall adopt a consistent methodology for determining the
(b) in accordance with Article 153(3), or Article 183, where
notional amount for different product types, and shall ensure
permission has been granted in accordance with
that the notional amount to be taken into account provides an
Article 143.
appropriate measure of the risk inherent in the contract. Where
the contract provides for a multiplication of cash flows, the
notional amount shall be adjusted by an institution to take
The exposure value for CCR for those credit derivatives shall be into account the effects of the multiplication on the risk
zero, unless an institution applies the approach (ii) in point (h) structure of that contract.
of Article 299(2).
For the methods set out in Sections 3 to 6, institutions shall
4. Notwithstanding paragraph 3, an institution may choose treat transactions where specific wrong way risk has been
consistently to include for the purposes of calculating own identified in accordance with Article 291(2), (4), (5) and (6)
funds requirements for counterparty credit risk all credit as appropriate.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/171
S e c t i o n 3 apply the percentages in Table 2 provided that that institution
follows the extended maturity ladder approach set out in
M a r k – t o – m a r k e t M e t h o d
Article 361 for those contracts.
Article 274
Mark-to-market Method
Table 2
1. In order to determine the current replacement cost of all
contracts with positive values, institutions shall attach the
Other,
current market values to the contracts. Precious Agricultural
including
Residual maturity metals Base metals products
energy
(except gold) (softs)
products
One year or less 2 % 2,5 % 3 % 4 %
2. In order to determine the potential future credit exposure,
institutions shall multiply the notional amounts or underlying Over one year, not 5 % 4 % 5 % 6 %
values, as applicable, by the percentages in Table 1 and in exceeding five years
accordance with the following principles:
Over five years 7,5 % 8 % 9 % 10 %
(a) contracts which do not fall within one of the five categories 4. The sum of current replacement cost and potential future
indicated in Table 1 shall be treated as contracts concerning credit exposure is the exposure value.
commodities other than precious metals;
S e c t i o n 4
(b) for contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the O r i g i n a l E x p o s u r e M e t h o d
percentages shall be multiplied by the number of
Article 275
remaining payments still to be made in accordance with
the contract; Original Exposure Method
1. The exposure value is the notional amount of each
instrument multiplied by the percentages set out in Table 3.
(c) for contracts that are structured to settle outstanding
exposure following specified payment dates and where the
terms are reset so that the market value of the contract is
Table 3
zero on those specified dates, the residual maturity shall be
equal to the time until the next reset date. In the case of
Contracts
interest-rate contracts that meet those criteria and have a Interest-rate concerning
Original maturity
remaining maturity of over one year, the percentage shall be contracts foreign-exchange
no lower than 0,5 %. rates and gold
One year or less 0,5 % 2 %
Over one year, not exceeding two 1 % 5 %
Table 1 years
Contracts Additional allowance for each 1 % 3 %
Contracts Contracts concerning additional year
concerning concerning
Interest- Contracts commodit­
foreign- precious
Residual maturity rate concerning ies other
exchange metals
contracts equities than
rates and except
precious 2. For calculating the exposure value of interest-rate
gold gold
metals contracts, an institution may choose to use either the original
or residual maturity.
One year or 0 % 1 % 6 % 7 % 10 %
less
Over one year, 0,5 % 5 % 8 % 7 % 12 %
S e c t i o n 5
not exceeding
five years
S t a n d a r d i s e d M e t h o d
Over five years 1,5 % 7,5 % 10 % 8 % 15 % Article 276
Standardised Method
3. For contracts relating to commodities other than gold, 1. Institutions may use the Standardised Method (hereinafter
which are referred to in point 3 of Annex II, an institution referred to as 'SM') only for calculating the exposure value for
may, as an alternative to applying the percentages in Table 1, OTC derivatives and long settlement transactions.
L 176/172 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. When applying the SM, institutions shall calculate the exposure value separately for each netting set,
net of collateral, as follows:
Exposure value ¼ β · max (CMV – CMC; j j i RPT ij – l RPC lj j · CCRM j )
X X X
where:
CMV = current market value of the portfolio of transactions (c) an institution may disregard the interest rate risk from
within the netting set with a counterparty gross of payment legs with a remaining maturity of less than one
collateral, where: year;
CMV CMV
i
¼
i
X (d) an institution may treat transactions that consist of two
where: payment legs that are denominated in the same currency
as a single aggregate transaction. The treatment for payment
legs applies to the aggregate transaction.
CMV
i
= the current market value of transaction i;
CMC = the current market value of the collateral assigned to
Article 277
the netting set, where:
Transactions with a linear risk profile
CMC
¼
CMC
l
l 1. Institutions shall map transactions with a linear risk
X
profile to risk positions in accordance with the following provi­
where:
sions:
CMC
l
= the current market value of collateral l;
(a) transactions with a linear risk profile with equities (including
i = index designating transaction; equity indices), gold, other precious metals or other
commodities as the underlying shall be mapped to a risk
position in the respective equity (or equity index) or
l = index designating collateral;
commodity and an interest rate risk position for the
payment leg;
j = index designating hedging set category;
The hedging sets for this purpose correspond to risk factors for (b) transactions with a linear risk profile with a debt instrument
which risk positions of opposite sign can be offset to yield a net as the underlying instrument shall be mapped to an interest
risk position on which the exposure measure is then based. rate risk position for the debt instrument and another
interest rate risk position for the payment leg;
RPT
i j
= risk position from transaction i with respect to
hedging set j;
(c) transactions with a linear risk profile that stipulate the
exchange of payment against payment, including foreign
RPC
lj
= risk position from collateral l with respect to
exchange forwards, shall be mapped to an interest rate
hedging set j;
risk position for each of the payment legs.
CCRM
j
= CCR Multiplier set out in Table 5 with respect to
hedging set j;
Where, under a transaction mentioned in point (a), (b) or (c), a
payment leg or the underlying debt instrument is denominated
β = 1,4. in foreign currency, that payment leg or underlying instrument
shall also be mapped to a risk position in that currency.
3. For the purposes of the calculation under paragraph 2:
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the size of a risk
(a) eligible collateral received from a counterparty shall have a
position from a transaction with linear risk profile shall be
positive sign and collateral posted to a counterparty shall
the effective notional value (market price multiplied by
have a negative sign;
quantity) of the underlying financial instruments or
commodities converted to the institution's domestic currency
(b) only collateral that is eligible under Article 197, Article 198 by multiplication with the relevant exchange rate, except for
and Article 299(2)(d) shall be used for the SM; debt instruments.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/173
3. For debt instruments and for payment legs, the size of the (i) as the effective notional value in the case of a trans­
risk position shall be the effective notional value of the action with a linear risk profile;
outstanding gross payments (including the notional amount)
converted to the currency of the home Member State, ∂V
multiplied by the modified duration of the debt instrument or
(ii) as the delta equivalent notional value, p
r ef
·
∂p
, in the
payment leg, as the case may be. case of a transaction with a non-linear risk profile,
4. The size of a risk position from a credit default swap shall where:
be the notional value of the reference debt instrument
multiplied by the remaining maturity of the credit default swap.
P
ref
= price of the underlying instrument, expressed in
the reference currency;
Article 278
V = value of the financial instrument (in the case of
Transactions with a non-linear risk profile an option, the value is the option price);
1. Institutions shall determine the size of the risk positions
for transactions with a non-linear risk profile in accordance p = price of the underlying instrument, expressed in
with the following paragraphs. the same currency as V;
(b) for debt instruments and the payment legs of all trans­
2. The size of a risk position from an OTC derivative with a
actions:
non-linear risk profile, including options and swaptions, of
which the underlying is not a debt instrument or a payment
leg shall be equal to the delta equivalent effective notional value (i) as the effective notional value multiplied by the
of the financial instrument that underlies the transaction in modified duration in the case of a transaction with a
accordance with Article 280(1). linear risk profile;
(ii) as the delta equivalent in notional value multiplied by
3. The size of a risk position from an OTC derivative with a
∂V
non-linear risk profile, including options and swaptions, of the modified duration, , in the case of a transaction
which the underlying is a debt instrument or a payment leg, ∂r
shall be equal to the delta equivalent effective notional value of with a non-linear risk profile,
the financial instrument or payment leg multiplied by the
modified duration of the debt instrument or payment leg, as
where:
the case may be.
V = value of the financial instrument (in the case of an
Article 279 option this is the option price);
Treatment of Collateral
r = interest rate level.
For the determination of risk positions, institutions shall treat
collateral as follows:
If V is denominated in a currency other than the reference
currency, the derivative shall be converted into the reference
(a) collateral received from a counterparty shall be treated as a currency by multiplication with the relevant exchange rate.
claim on the counterparty under a derivative contract (long
position) that is due on the day the determination is made;
2. Institutions shall group the risk positions into hedging
sets. The absolute value amount of the sum of the resulting
risk positions shall be calculated for each hedging set. The net
(b) collateral it has posted with the counterparty shall be treated risk position shall be the result of that calculation and shall be
as an obligation to the counterparty (short position) that is calculated for the purposes of Article 276(2) as follows:
due on the day the determination is made.
RPT
ij
– RPC
lj
Article 280 j i l j
X X
Calculation of risk positions
1. An institution shall determine the size and sign of a risk Article 281
position as follows:
Interest rate risk positions
1. In order to calculate interest rate risk position, institutions
(a) for all instruments other than debt instruments: shall apply the following provisions.
L 176/174 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. For interest rate risk positions from the following: (b) there shall be one hedging set for each reference debt
instrument in a basket underlying a given 'nth to default'
credit default swap. Risk positions from different n-th to
default credit default swaps shall not be included in the
(a) money deposits received from the counterparty as collateral;
same hedging set;
(b) a payment legs; (c) the CCR multiplier applicable to each hedging set created
for one of the reference debt instruments of an n-th to
default derivative shall be as follows:
(c) underlying debt instruments,
(i) 0,3 % for reference debt instruments that have a credit
assessment from a recognised ECAI equivalent to credit
to which in each case a capital charge of 1,60 % or less applies quality step 1 to 3;
in accordance with Table 1 of Article 336, institutions shall
assign those positions to one of the six hedging sets for each
currency set out in Table 4. (ii) 0,6 % for other debt instruments.
3. For interest rate risk positions from:
Table 4
Government Non-government
(a) money deposits that are posted with a counterparty as
referenced interest referenced interest
rates rates collateral when that counterparty does not have debt
obligations of low specific risk outstanding;
Maturity < 1 year < 1 year
>1 ≤ 5 years > 5 years
(b) underlying debt instruments, to which according to Table 1
of Article 336 a capital charge of more than 1,60 % applies;
>1 ≤ 5 years > 5 years
There shall be one hedging set for each issuer.
3. For interest rate risk positions from underlying debt
instruments or payment legs for which the interest rate is
linked to a reference interest rate that represents a general When a payment leg emulates such a debt instrument, there
market interest level, the remaining maturity shall be the shall also be one hedging set for each issuer of the reference
length of the time interval up to the next re-adjustment of debt instrument.
the interest rate. In all other cases, it shall be the remaining
life of the underlying debt instrument or, in the case of a
payment leg, the remaining life of the transaction. An institution may assign risk positions that arise from debt
instruments of a particular issuer, or from reference debt
instruments of the same issuer that are emulated by payment
legs, or that underlie a credit default swap, to the same hedging
Article 282
set.
Hedging sets
1. Institutions shall establish hedging sets in accordance with
4. Underlying financial instruments other than debt
paragraphs 2 to 5.
instruments shall be assigned to the same hedging sets only if
they are identical or similar instruments. In all other cases they
shall be assigned to separate hedging sets.
2. There shall be one hedging set for each issuer of a
reference debt instrument that underlies a credit default swap.
For the purposes of this paragraph institutions shall determine
whether underlying instruments are similar in accordance with
the following principles:
N-th to default basket credit default swaps shall be treated as
follows:
(a) for equities, the underlying is similar if it is issued by the
same issuer. An equity index shall be treated as a separate
(a) the size of a risk position in a reference debt instrument in issuer;
a basket underlying an n-th to default credit default swap
shall be the effective notional value of the reference debt
instrument, multiplied by the modified duration of the n-th (b) for precious metals, the underlying is similar if it is the same
to default derivative with respect to a change in the credit metal. A precious metal index shall be treated as a separate
spread of the reference debt instrument; precious metal;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/175
(c) for electric power, the underlying is similar if the delivery 7. An institution shall have internal procedures to verify that,
rights and obligations refer to the same peak or off-peak prior to including a transaction in a hedging set, the transaction
load time interval within any 24-hour interval; is covered by a legally enforceable netting contract that meets
the requirements set out in Section 7.
(d) for commodities, the underlying is similar if it is the same
8. An institution that makes use of collateral to mitigate its
commodity. A commodity index shall be treated as a
CCR shall have internal procedures to verify that, prior to
separate commodity.
recognising the effect of collateral in its calculations, the
collateral meets the legal certainty standards set out in
Chapter 4.
5. The CCR multipliers (hereinafter referred to as 'CCRM') for
the different hedging set categories are set out in the following
table: S e c t i o n 6
I n t e r n a l M o d e l M e t h o d
Article 283
Table 5
Permission to use the Internal Model Method
Hedging set categories CCRM
1. Provided that the competent authorities are satisfied that
the requirement in paragraph 2 have been met by an institution,
1. Interest Rates 0,2 %
they shall permit that institution to use the Internal Model
2. Interest Rates for risk positions from a reference debt 0,3 % Method (IMM) to calculate the exposure value for any of the
instrument that underlies a credit default swap and to following transactions:
which a capital charge of 1,60 %, or less, applies
under Table 1 of Chapter 2 of Title IV.
(a) transactions in Article 273(2)(a);
3. Interest Rates for risk positions from a debt 0,6 %
instrument or reference debt instrument to which a
capital charge of more than 1,60 % applies under
Table 1 of Chapter 2 of Title IV. (b) transactions in Article 273(2)(b), (c) and (d);
4. Exchange Rates 2,5 %
5. Electric Power 4 % (c) transactions in Article 273(2)(a) to (d),
6. Gold 5 %
Where an institution is permitted to use the IMM to calculate
7. Equity 7 %
exposure value for any of the transactions mentioned in points
(a) to (c) of the first subparagraph, it may also use the IMM for
8. Precious Metals (other than gold) 8,5 %
the transactions in Article 273(2)(e).
9. Other Commodities (excluding precious metals and 10 %
electricity power)
Notwithstanding the third subparagraph of Article 273(1), an
10. Underlying instruments of OTC derivatives that are 10 %
institution may choose not to apply this method to exposures
not in any of the above categories
that are immaterial in size and risk. In such case, an institution
shall apply one of the methods set out in Sections 3 to 5 to
these exposures where the relevant requirements for each
Underlying instruments of OTC derivatives, as referred to in approach are met.
point 10 of Table 5, shall be assigned to separate individual
hedging sets for each category of underlying instrument.
2. Competent authorities shall permit institutions to use IMM
for the calculations referred to in paragraph 1 only if the insti­
tution has demonstrated that it complies with the requirements
6. For transactions with a non-linear risk profile or for
set out in this Section, and the competent authorities verified
payment legs and transactions with debt instruments as
that the systems for the management of CCR maintained by the
underlying for which the institution cannot determine the
institution are sound and properly implemented.
delta or the modified duration, as the case may be, with an
instrument model that the competent authority has approved
for the purposes of determining the own funds requirements for
market risk, the competent authority shall either determine the 3. The competent authorities may permit institutions for a
size of the risk positions and the applicable CCRMjs conser­ limited period to implement the IMM sequentially across
vatively, or require the institution to use the method set out in different transaction types. During this period of sequential
Section 3. Netting shall not be recognised (that is, the exposure implementation institutions may use the methods set out in
value shall be determined as if there were a netting set that Section 3 or Section 5 for transaction type for which they do
comprises just an individual transaction). not use the IMM.
L 176/176 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. For all OTC derivative transactions and for long settlement 3. The own funds requirement for counterparty credit risk
transactions for which an institution has not received with respect to the CCR exposures to which an institution
permission under paragraph 1 to use the IMM, the institution applies the IMM, shall be the higher of the following:
shall use the methods set out in Section 3 or Section 5.
(a) the own funds requirement for those exposures calculated
Those methods may be used in combination on a permanent on the basis of Effective EPE using current market data;
basis within a group. Within an institution those methods may
be used in combination only where one of the methods is used
for the cases set out in Article 282(6)
(b) the own funds requirement for those exposures calculated
on the basis of Effective EPE using a single consistent stress
calibration for all CCR exposures to which they apply the
5. An institution which is permitted in accordance with IMM.
paragraph 1 to use the IMM shall not revert to the use of the
methods set out in Section 3 or Section 5 unless it is permitted
by the competent authority to do so. Competent authorities
4. Except for counterparties identified as having Specific
shall give such permission if the institution demonstrates
Wrong-Way Risk that fall within the scope of Article 291(4)
good cause.
and (5), institutions shall calculate the exposure value as the
product of alpha (α) times Effective EPE, as follows:
6. If an institution ceases to comply with the requirements
Exposure value α · Effective EPE
laid down in this Section, it shall notify the competent authority ¼
and do one of the following: where:
(a) present to the competent authority a plan for a timely
α = 1.4, unless competent authorities require a higher α or
return to compliance;
permit institutions to use their own estimates in
accordance with paragraph 9;
(b) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent authority
that the effect of non-compliance is immaterial.
Effective EPE shall be calculated by estimating expected
exposure (EEt) as the average exposure at future date t, where
the average is taken across possible future values of relevant
Article 284 market risk factors.
Exposure value
1. Where an institution is permitted, in accordance with The model shall estimate EE at a series of future dates t1, t2, t3,
Article 283(1), to use the IMM to calculate the exposure etc.
value of some or all transactions mentioned in that paragraph,
it shall measure the exposure value of those transactions at the
level of the netting set.
5. Effective EE shall be calculated recursively as:
The model used by the institution for that purpose shall:
Effective EE
t k ¼
max fEffective EE
t k–1
, EE
t k g
where:
(a) specify the forecasting distribution for changes in the
market value of the netting set attributable to joint
the current date is denoted as t
0
;
changes in relevant market variables, such as interest rates,
foreign exchange rates;
Effective EE
t 0
equals current exposure.
(b) calculate the exposure value for the netting set at each of
the future dates on the basis of the joint changes in the 6. Effective EPE is the average Effective EE during the first
market variables. year of future exposure. If all contracts in the netting set mature
within less than one year, EPE shall be the average of EE until
all contracts in the netting set mature. Effective EPE shall be
2. In order for the model to capture the effects of margining, calculated as a weighted average of Effective EE:
the model of the collateral value shall meet the quantitative,
qualitative and data requirements for the IMM model in
min f1 year; m aturity
g
accordance with this Section and the institution may include
Effective EPE
¼
Effective EE
t k
· Δt
k
k 1
in its forecasting distributions for changes in the market value X¼
o inf th Ae
r
tn ice lt et sin g 1s 9e 7t on al ny
d
e lig 1i 9b 8le fi an na dn cia pl
o
c ino tl sla te (r ca
)
l a as
n
r de fer (dre
)
d t oo
f
fw uh tue rr ee eth xe
p
ow sue ri eg h it ss cΔ at
l
k
c
u¼
la
tt
e
k
d– t
a
k t– 1
daa tl elo
s
w
t
hf ao
t
r at rh ee nc oa ts e
e
qw uh ae lln
y
Article 299(2). spaced over time.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/177
7. Institutions shall calculate EE or peak exposure measures Article 285
on the basis of a distribution of exposures that accounts for the
Exposure value for netting sets subject to a margin
possible non-normality of the distribution of exposures.
agreement
1. If the netting set is subject to a margin agreement and
daily mark-to-market valuation, an institution may use one of
8. An institution may use a measure of the distribution
the following EPE measures:
calculated by the model that is more conservative than α
multiplied by Effective EPE as calculated in accordance with
the equation in paragraph 4 for every counterparty.
(a) effective EPE, without taking into account any collateral held
or posted by way of margin plus any collateral that has
9. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, competent authorities may been posted to the counterparty independent of the daily
permit institutions to use their own estimates of alpha, where: valuation and margining process or current exposure;
(a) alpha shall equal the ratio of internal capital from a full (b) an add-on that reflects the potential increase in exposure
simulation of CCR exposure across counterparties over the margin period of risk, plus the larger of:
(numerator) and internal capital based on EPE (denomi­
nator);
(i) the current exposure including all collateral currently
held or posted, other than collateral called or in dispute;
(b) in the denominator, EPE shall be used as if it were a fixed
outstanding amount.
(ii) the largest net exposure, including collateral under the
margin agreement, that would not trigger a collateral
When estimated in accordance with this paragraph, alpha shall
call. This amount shall reflect all applicable thresholds,
be no lower than 1.2.
minimum transfer amounts, independent amounts and
initial margins under the margin agreement;
10. For the purposes of an estimate of alpha under
paragraph 9, an institution shall ensure that the numerator
(c) if the model captures the effects of margining when esti­
and denominator are calculated in a manner consistent with
mating EE, the institution may, subject to the permission of
the modelling methodology, parameter specifications and
the competent authority, use the model's EE measure
portfolio composition. The approach used to estimate α shall
directly in the equation in Article 284(5). Competent auth­
be based on the institution's internal capital approach, be well
orities shall grant such permission only if they verify that
documented and be subject to independent validation. In
the model properly captures the effects of margining when
addition, an institution shall review its estimates of alpha on
estimating EE.
at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when the
composition of the portfolio varies over time. An institution
shall also assess the model risk.
For the purposes of point (b), institutions shall calculate the
add-on as the expected positive change of the mark-to-market
value of the transactions during the margin period of risk.
11. An institution shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Changes in the value of collateral shall be reflected using the
competent authorities that its internal estimates of alpha capture
supervisory volatility adjustments in accordance with Section 3
in the numerator material sources of dependency of distribution
of Chapter 4 or the own estimates of volatility adjustments of
of market values of transactions or of portfolios of transactions
the Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method, but no
across counterparties. Internal estimates of alpha shall take
collateral payments shall be assumed during the margin
account of the granularity of portfolios.
period of risk. The margin period of risk is subject to the
minimum periods set out in paragraphs 2 to 5.
12. In supervising the use of estimates under paragraph 9,
competent authorities shall have regard to the significant
variation in estimates of alpha that arises from the potential 2. For transactions subject to daily re-margining and mark-
for mis-specification in the models used for the numerator, to-market valuation, the margin period of risk used for the
especially where convexity is present. purpose of modelling the exposure value with margin
agreements shall not be less than:
13. Where appropriate, volatilities and correlations of market
risk factors used in the joint modelling of market and credit risk (a) 5 business days for netting sets consisting only of
shall be conditioned on the credit risk factor to reflect potential repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending
increases in volatility or correlation in an economic downturn. or borrowing transactions and margin lending transactions;
L 176/178 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) 10 business days for all other netting sets. lations for OTC derivatives and securities-financing transactions
the effect of collateral other than cash of the same currency as
the exposure itself, unless it uses either volatility adjustments
3. Points (a) and (b) of paragraph 2 shall be subject to the that meet the standards of the financial collateral comprehensive
following exceptions: method with own volatility adjustments estimates or the
standard supervisory volatility adjustments in accordance with
Chapter 4.
(a) for all netting sets where the number of trades exceeds
5 000 at any point during a quarter, the margin period of
8. An institution using the IMM shall ignore in its models
risk for the following quarter shall not be less than 20
the effect of a reduction of the exposure value due to any clause
business days. This exception shall not apply to institutions'
in a collateral agreement that requires receipt of collateral when
trade exposures;
counterparty credit quality deteriorates.
(b) for netting sets containing one or more trades involving Article 286
either illiquid collateral, or an OTC derivative that cannot
be easily replaced, the margin period of risk shall not be less Management of CCR – Policies, processes and systems
than 20 business days.
1. An institution shall establish and maintain a CCR
management framework, consisting of:
An institution shall determine whether collateral is illiquid or
whether OTC derivatives cannot be easily replaced in the (a) policies, processes and systems to ensure the identification,
context of stressed market conditions, characterised by the measurement, management, approval and internal reporting
absence of continuously active markets where a counterparty of CCR;
would, within two days or fewer, obtain multiple price
quotations that would not move the market or represent a
price reflecting a market discount (in the case of collateral) or (b) procedures for ensuring that those policies, processes and
premium (in the case of an OTC derivative). systems are complied with.
An institution shall consider whether trades or securities it Those polices, processes and systems shall be conceptually
holds as collateral are concentrated in a particular counterparty sound, implemented with integrity and documented. The docu­
and if that counterparty exited the market precipitously whether mentation shall include an explanation of the empirical tech­
the institution would be able to replace those trades or secur­ niques used to measure CCR.
ities.
2. The CCR management framework required by paragraph
4. If an institution has been involved in more than two 1 shall take account of market, liquidity, and legal and oper­
margin call disputes on a particular netting set over the ational risks that are associated with CCR. In particular, the
immediately preceding two quarters that have lasted longer framework shall ensure that the institution complies with the
than the applicable margin period of risk under paragraphs 2 following principles:
and 3, the institution shall use a margin period of risk that is at
least double the period specified in paragraphs 2 and 3 for that
netting set for the subsequent two quarters. (a) it does not undertake business with a counterparty without
assessing its creditworthiness;
5. For re-margining with a periodicity of N days, the margin
(b) it takes due account of settlement and pre-settlement credit
period of risk shall be at least equal to the period specified in
risk;
paragraphs 2 and 3, F, plus N days minus one day. That is:
Margin Period of Risk F N – 1 (c) it manages such risks as comprehensively as practicable at
¼ þ
the counterparty level by aggregating CCR exposures with
other credit exposures and at the firm-wide level.
6. If the internal model includes the effect of margining on
changes in the market value of the netting set, an institution 3. An institution using the IMM shall ensure that its CCR
shall model collateral, other than cash of the same currency as management framework accounts to the satisfaction of the
the exposure itself, jointly with the exposure in its exposure competent authority for the liquidity risks of all of the
value calculations for OTC derivatives and securities-financing following:
transactions.
(a) potential incoming margin calls in the context of exchanges
7. If an institution is not able to model collateral jointly with of variation margin or other margin types, such as initial or
the exposure, it shall not recognise in its exposure value calcu­ independent margin, under adverse market shocks;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/179
(b) potential incoming calls for the return of excess collateral Where stress tests reveal particular vulnerability to a given set of
posted by counterparties; circumstances, the institution shall take prompt steps to manage
those risks.
(c) calls resulting from a potential downgrade of its own
Article 287
external credit quality assessment.
Organisation structures for CCR management
1. An institution using the IMM shall establish and maintain:
An institution shall ensure that the nature and horizon of
collateral re-use is consistent with its liquidity needs and does
not jeopardise its ability to post or return collateral in a timely (a) a risk control unit that complies with paragraph 2;
manner.
(b) a collateral management unit that complies with
paragraph 3.
4. An institution's management body and senior
management shall be actively involved in, and ensure that
adequate resources are allocated to, the management of CCR.
Senior management shall be aware of the limitations and 2. The risk control unit shall be responsible for the design
assumptions of the model used and the impact those limitations and implementation of its CCR management, including the
and assumptions can have on the reliability of the output initial and on-going validation of the model, and shall carry
through a formal process. Senior management shall be also out the following functions and meet the following require­
aware of the uncertainties of the market environment and oper­ ments:
ational issues and of how these are reflected in the model.
(a) it shall be responsible for the design and implementation of
the CCR management system of the institution;
5. The daily reports prepared on an institution's exposures to
CCR in accordance with Article 287(2)(b) shall be reviewed by a
level of management with sufficient seniority and authority to
enforce both reductions of positions taken by individual credit (b) it shall produce daily reports on and analyse the output of
managers or traders and reductions in the institution's overall the institution's risk measurement model. That analysis shall
CCR exposure. include an evaluation of the relationship between measures
of CCR exposure values and trading limits;
6. An institution's CCR management framework established
(c) it shall control input data integrity and produce and analyse
in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be used in conjunction
reports on the output of the institution's risk measurement
with internal credit and trading limits. Credit and trading limits
model, including an evaluation of the relationship between
shall be related to the institution's risk measurement model in a
measures of risk exposure and credit and trading limits;
manner that is consistent over time and that is well understood
by credit managers, traders and senior management. An insti­
tution shall have a formal process to report breaches of risk
limits to the appropriate level of management. (d) it shall be independent from units responsible for orig­
inating, renewing or trading exposures and free from
undue influence;
7. An institution's measurement of CCR shall include
measuring daily and intra-day use of credit lines. The institution
(e) it shall be adequately staffed;
shall measure current exposure gross and net of collateral. At
portfolio and counterparty level, the institution shall calculate
and monitor peak exposure or potential future exposure at the
confidence interval chosen by the institution. The institution (f) it shall report directly to the senior management of the
shall take account of large or concentrated positions, institution;
including by groups of related counterparties, by industry and
by market.
(g) its work shall be closely integrated into the day-to-day credit
risk management process of the institution;
8. An institution shall establish and maintain a routine and
rigorous program of stress testing. The results of that stress
testing shall be reviewed regularly and at least quarterly by (h) its output shall be an integral part of the process of
senior management and shall be reflected in the CCR policies planning, monitoring and controlling the institution's
and limits set by the management body or senior management. credit and overall risk profile.
L 176/180 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. The collateral management unit shall carry out the (b) the organisation of the CCR control unit required by
following tasks and functions: Article 287(1)(a);
(c) the organisation of the collateral management unit required
(a) calculating and making margin calls, managing margin call
by Article 287(1)(b);
disputes and reporting levels of independent amounts, initial
margins and variation margins accurately on a daily basis;
(d) the integration of CCR measures into daily risk
management;
(b) controlling the integrity of the data used to make margin
calls, and ensuring that it is consistent and reconciled
regularly with all relevant sources of data within the insti­
(e) the approval process for risk pricing models and valuation
tution;
systems used by front and back-office personnel;
(c) tracking the extent of re-use of collateral and any (f) the validation of any significant change in the CCR
amendment of the rights of the institution to or in measurement process;
connection with the collateral that it posts;
(g) the scope of CCR captured by the risk measurement model;
(d) reporting to the appropriate level of management the types
of collateral assets that are reused, and the terms of such
reuse including instrument, credit quality and maturity; (h) the integrity of the management information system;
(e) tracking concentration to individual types of collateral assets (i) the accuracy and completeness of CCR data;
accepted by the institution;
(j) the accurate reflection of legal terms in collateral and
netting agreements into exposure value measurements;
(f) reporting collateral management information on a regular
basis, but at least quarterly, to senior management,
including information on the type of collateral received
(k) the verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability
and posted, the size, aging and cause for margin call
of data sources used to run models, including the inde­
disputes. That internal reporting shall also reflect trends in
pendence of such data sources;
these figures.
(l) the accuracy and appropriateness of volatility and
4. Senior management shall allocate sufficient resources to
correlation assumptions;
the collateral management unit required under paragraph 1(b)
to ensure that its systems achieve an appropriate level of oper­
ational performance, as measured by the timeliness and
(m) the accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calcu­
accuracy of margin calls by the institution and the timeliness
lations;
of the response of the institution to margin calls by its counter­
parties. Senior management shall ensure that the unit is
adequately staffed to process calls and disputes in a timely
(n) the verification of the model's accuracy through frequent
manner even under severe market crisis, and to enable the
back-testing as set out in points (b) to (e) of Article 293(1);
institution to limit its number of large disputes caused by
trade volumes.
(o) the compliance of the CCR control unit and collateral
management unit with the relevant regulatory require­
Article 288
ments.
Review of CCR management system
An institution shall regularly conduct an independent review of Article 289
its CCR management system through its internal auditing
process. That review shall include both the activities of the Use test
control and collateral management units required by Article 287
1. Institutions shall ensure that the distribution of exposures
and shall specifically address, as a minimum:
generated by the model used to calculate effective EPE is closely
integrated into the day-to-day CCR management process of the
institution, and that the output of the model is taken into
(a) the adequacy of the documentation of the CCR account in the process of credit approval, CCR management,
management system and process required by Article 286; internal capital allocation and corporate governance.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/181
2. The institution shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 4. The programme shall comprehensively capture trades and
competent authorities that it has been using a model to aggregate exposures across all forms of counterparty credit risk
calculate the distribution of exposures upon which the EPE at the level of specific counterparties in a sufficient time frame
calculation is based that meets, broadly, the requirements set to conduct regular stress testing.
out in this Section for at least one year prior to permission to
use the IMM by the competent authorities in accordance with
Article 283.
5. It shall provide for at least monthly exposure stress testing
of principal market risk factors such as interest rates, FX,
equities, credit spreads, and commodity prices for all counter­
3. The model used to generate a distribution of exposures to parties of the institution, in order to identify, and enable the
CCR shall be part of the CCR management framework required institution when necessary to reduce outsized concentrations in
by Article 286. This framework shall include the measurement specific directional risks. Exposure stress testing -including
of usage of credit lines, aggregating CCR exposures with other single factor, multifactor and material non-directional risks-
credit exposures and internal capital allocation. and joint stressing of exposure and creditworthiness shall be
performed at the counterparty-specific, counterparty group
and aggregate institution-wide CCR levels.
4. In addition to EPE, an institution shall measure and
manage current exposures. Where appropriate, the institution
shall measure current exposure gross and net of collateral. 6. It shall apply at least quarterly multifactor stress testing
The use test is satisfied if an institution uses other CCR scenarios and assess material non-directional risks including
measures, such as peak exposure, based on the distribution of yield curve exposure and basis risks. Multiple-factor stress
exposures generated by the same model to compute EPE. tests shall, at a minimum, address the following scenarios in
which the following occurs:
5. An institution shall have the systems capability to estimate
EE daily if necessary, unless it demonstrates to the satisfaction (a) severe economic or market events have occurred;
of its competent authorities that its exposures to CCR warrant
less frequent calculation. The institution shall estimate EE along
a time profile of forecasting horizons that adequately reflects
the time structure of future cash flows and maturity of the (b) broad market liquidity has decreased significantly;
contracts and in a manner that is consistent with the materiality
and composition of the exposures.
(c) a large financial intermediary is liquidating positions.
6. Exposure shall be measured, monitored and controlled
over the life of all contracts in the netting set and not only
7. The severity of the shocks of the underlying risk factors
to the one-year horizon. The institution shall have procedures
shall be consistent with the purpose of the stress test. When
in place to identify and control the risks for counterparties
evaluating solvency under stress, the shocks of the underlying
where the exposure rises beyond the one-year horizon. The
risk factors shall be sufficiently severe to capture historical
forecast increase in exposure shall be an input into the institu­
extreme market environments and extreme but plausible
tion's internal capital model.
stressed market conditions. The stress tests shall evaluate the
impact of such shocks on own funds, own funds requirements
and earnings. For the purpose of day-to-day portfolio moni­
Article 290 toring, hedging, and management of concentrations the
testing programme shall also consider scenarios of lesser
Stress testing
severity and higher probability.
1. An institution shall have a comprehensive stress testing
programme for CCR, including for use in assessment of own
funds requirements for CCR, which complies with the
8. The programme shall include provision, where appro­
requirements laid down in paragraphs 2 to 10.
priate, for reverse stress tests to identify extreme, but plausible,
scenarios that could result in significant adverse outcomes.
Reverse stress testing shall account for the impact of material
2. It shall identify possible events or future changes in non-linearity in the portfolio.
economic conditions that could have unfavourable effects on
an institution's credit exposures and assess the institution's
ability to withstand such changes.
9. The results of the stress testing under the programme shall
be reported regularly, at least on a quarterly basis, to senior
management. The reports and analysis of the results shall
3. The stress measures under the programme shall be cover the largest counterparty-level impacts across the portfolio,
compared against risk limits and considered by the institution material concentrations within segments of the portfolio (within
as part of the process set out in Article 81 of Directive the same industry or region), and relevant portfolio and
2013/36/EU. counterparty specific trends.
L 176/182 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
10. Senior management shall take a lead role in the inte­ (b) within any such separate netting set, for single-name credit
gration of stress testing into the risk management framework default swaps the exposure value equals the full expected
and risk culture of the institution and ensure that the results are loss in the value of the remaining fair value of the
meaningful and used to manage CCR. The results of stress underlying instruments based on the assumption that the
testing for significant exposures shall be assessed against underlying issuer is in liquidation;
guidelines that indicate the institution's risk appetite, and
referred to senior management for discussion and action
when excessive or concentrated risks are identified.
(c) LGD for an institution using the approach set out in
Chapter 3 shall be 100 % for such swap transactions;
Article 291
Wrong-Way Risk
(d) for an institution using the approach set out in Chapter 2,
1. For the purposes of this Article: the applicable risk weight shall be that of an unsecured
transaction;
(a) 'General Wrong-Way risk' arises when the likelihood of
default by counterparties is positively correlated with
(e) for all other transactions referencing a single name in any
general market risk factors;
such separate netting set, the calculation of the exposure
value shall be consistent with the assumption of a jump-
to-default of those underlying obligations where the issuer is
(b) 'Specific Wrong-Way risk' arises when future exposure to a
legally connected with the counterparty. For transactions
specific counterparty is positively correlated with the
referencing a basket of names or index, the jump-to-
counterparty's PD due to the nature of the transactions
default of the respective underlying obligations where the
with the counterparty. An institution shall be considered
issuer is legally connected with the counterparty, shall be
to be exposed to Specific Wrong-Way risk if the future
applied, if material;
exposure to a specific counterparty is expected to be high
when the counterparty's probability of a default is also high.
(f) to the extent that this uses existing market risk calculations
2. An institution shall give due consideration to exposures for own funds requirements for incremental default and
that give rise to a significant degree of Specific and General migration risk as set out in Title IV, Chapter 5, Section 4
Wrong-Way Risk. that already contain an LGD assumption, the LGD in the
formula used shall be 100 %.
3. In order to identify General Wrong-Way Risk, an insti­
tution shall design stress testing and scenario analyses to stress
6. Institutions shall provide senior management and the
risk factors that are adversely related to counterparty credit
appropriate committee of the management body with regular
worthiness. Such testing shall address the possibility of severe
reports on both Specific and General Wrong-Way risks and the
shocks occurring when relationships between risk factors have
steps being taken to manage those risks.
changed. An institution shall monitor General Wrong Way Risk
by product, by region, by industry, or by other categories that
are relevant to the business.
Article 292
Integrity of the modelling process
4. An institution shall maintain procedures to identify,
monitor and control cases of Specific Wrong-Way risk for 1. An institution shall ensure the integrity of modelling
each legal entity, beginning at the inception of a transaction process as set out in Article 284 by adopting at least the
and continuing through the life of the transaction. following measures:
5. Institutions shall calculate the own funds requirements for
(a) the model shall reflect transaction terms and specifications
CCR in relation to transactions where Specific Wrong-Way risk
in a timely, complete, and conservative fashion;
has been identified and where there exists a legal connection
between the counterparty and the issuer of the underlying of
the OTC derivative or the underlying of the transactions referred
to in points (b), (c) and (d) of Article 273(2)), in accordance
(b) those terms shall include at least contract notional amounts,
with the following principles:
maturity, reference assets, margining arrangements and
netting arrangements;
(a) the instruments where Specific Wrong-Way risk exists shall
not be included in the same netting set as other transactions
with the counterparty, and shall each be treated as a (c) those terms and specifications shall be maintained in a
separate netting set; database that is subject to formal and periodic audit;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/183
(d) a process for recognising netting arrangements that requires shall be calculated using (a) a stress methodology, based on
legal staff to verify that netting under those arrangements is current market values and model parameters calibrated to
legally enforceable; stressed market conditions, and (b) the exposure generated
during the stress period, but applying the method set out in
this Section (end of stress period market value, volatilities, and
correlations from the 3-year stress period).
(e) the verification required by point (d) shall be entered into
the database mentioned in point (c) by an independent unit;
The competent authorities shall require an institution to adjust
the stress calibration if the exposures of those benchmark port­
(f) the transmission of transaction terms and specification data
folios deviate substantially from each other.
to the EPE model shall be subject to internal audit;
6. An institution shall subject the model to a validation
(g) there shall be processes for formal reconciliation between
process that is clearly articulated in the institutions' policies
the model and source data systems to verify on an ongoing
and procedures. That validation process shall:
basis that transaction terms and specifications are being
reflected in EPE correctly or at least conservatively.
(a) specify the kind of testing needed to ensure model integrity
and identify conditions under which the assumptions
2. Current market data shall be used to determine current
underlying the model are inappropriate and may therefore
exposures. An institution may calibrate its EPE model using
result in an understatement of EPE;
either historic market data or market implied data to establish
parameters of the underlying stochastic processes, such as drift,
volatility and correlation. If an institution uses historical data, it
shall use at least three years of such data. The data shall be (b) include a review of the comprehensiveness of the model.
updated at least quarterly, and more frequently if necessary to
reflect market conditions.
7. An institution shall monitor the relevant risks and have
processes in place to adjust its estimation of EEPE when those
To calculate the Effective EPE using a stress calibration, an risks become significant. In complying with this paragraph, the
institution shall calibrate Effective EPE using either three years institution shall:
of data that includes a period of stress to the credit default
spreads of its counterparties or market implied data from
such a period of stress.
(a) identify and manage its exposures to Specific Wrong-Way
risk arising as specified in Article 291(1)(b) and exposures
to General Wrong-Way risk arising as specified in
The requirements in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall be applied by
Article 291(1)(a);
the institution for that purpose.
(b) for exposures with a rising risk profile after one year,
3. An institution shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
compare on a regular basis the estimate of a relevant
competent authority, at least quarterly, that the stress period
measure of exposure over one year with the same
used for the calculation under this paragraph coincides with a
exposure measure over the life of the exposure;
period of increased credit default swap or other credit (such as
loan or corporate bond) spreads for a representative selection of
its counterparties with traded credit spreads. In situations where
the institution does not have adequate credit spread data for a (c) for exposures with a residual maturity below one year,
counterparty, it shall map that counterparty to specific credit compare on a regular basis the replacement cost (current
spread data based on region, internal rating and business types. exposure) and the realised exposure profile, and store data
that would allow such a comparison.
4. The EPE model for all counterparties shall use data, either
historic or implied, that include the data from the stressed credit 8. An institution shall have internal procedures to verify that,
period and shall use such data in a manner consistent with the prior to including a transaction in a netting set, the transaction
method used for the calibration of the EPE model to current is covered by a legally enforceable netting contract that meets
data. the requirements set out in Section 7.
5. To evaluate the effectiveness of its stress calibration for 9. An institution that uses collateral to mitigate its CCR shall
EEPE, an institution shall create several benchmark portfolios have internal procedures to verify that, prior to recognising the
that are vulnerable to the main risk factors to which the insti­ effect of collateral in its calculations, the collateral meets the
tution is exposed. The exposure to these benchmark portfolios legal certainty standards set out in Chapter 4.
L 176/184 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
10. EBA shall monitor the range of practices in this area and control unit. A review of the overall risk management
shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) process shall take place at regular intervals (and no less
No 1093/2010, issue guidelines on the application of this than once a year) and shall specifically address, as a
Article. minimum, all items referred to in Article 288;
Article 293 (i) the on-going validation of counterparty credit risk models,
including back-testing, shall be reviewed periodically by a
Requirements for the risk management system
level of management with sufficient authority to decide the
1. An institution shall comply with the following require­ action that will be taken to address weaknesses in the
ments: models.
(a) it shall meet the qualitative requirements set out in Part
2. Competent authorities shall take into account the extent
Three, Title IV, Chapter 5;
to which an institution meets the requirements of paragraph 1
when setting the level of alpha, as set out in Article 284(4).
Only those institutions that comply fully with those
(b) it shall conduct a regular programme of back-testing,
requirements shall be eligible for application of the minimum
comparing the risk measures generated by the model with multiplication factor.
realised risk measures, and hypothetical changes based on
static positions with realised measures;
3. An institution shall document the process for initial and
on-going validation of its CCR exposure model and the calcu­
(c) it shall carry out an initial validation and an on-going
lation of the risk measures generated by the models to a level of
periodic review of its CCR exposure model and the risk
detail that would enable a third party to recreate, respectively,
measures generated by it. The validation and review shall
the analysis and the risk measures. That documentation shall set
be independent of the model development;
out the frequency with which back testing analysis and any
other on-going validation will be conducted, how the validation
is conducted with respect to data flows and portfolios and the
(d) the management body and senior management shall be
analyses that are used.
involved in the risk control process and shall ensure that
adequate resources are devoted to credit and counterparty
credit risk control. In this regard, the daily reports prepared
by the independent risk control unit established in 4. An institution shall define criteria with which to assess its
accordance Article 287(1)(a) shall be reviewed by a level CCR exposure models and the models that input into the calcu­
of management with sufficient seniority and authority to lation of exposure and maintain a written policy that describes
enforce both reductions of positions taken by individual the process by which unacceptable performance will be
traders and reductions in the overall risk exposure of the identified and remedied.
institution;
5. An institution shall define how representative
(e) the internal risk measurement exposure model shall be inte­ counterparty portfolios are constructed for the purposes of
grated into the day-to-day risk management process of the validating an CCR exposure model and its risk measures.
institution;
6. The validation of CCR exposure models and their risk
(f) the risk measurement system shall be used in conjunction
measures that produce forecast distributions shall consider
with internal trading and exposure limits. In this regard,
more than a single statistic of the forecast distribution.
exposure limits shall be related to the institution's risk
measurement model in a manner that is consistent over
time and that is well understood by traders, the credit
Article 294
function and senior management;
Validation requirements
(g) an institution shall ensure that its risk management system 1. As part of the initial and on-going validation of its CCR
is well documented. In particular, it shall maintain a docu­ exposure model and its risk measures, an institution shall ensure
mented set of internal policies, controls and procedures that the following requirements are met:
concerning the operation of the risk measurement system,
and arrangements to ensure that those policies are complied
with; (a) the institution shall carry out back-testing using historical
data on movements in market risk factors prior to the
permission by the competent authorities in accordance
(h) an independent review of the risk measurement system shall with Article 283(1). That back-testing shall consider a
be carried out regularly in the institution's own internal number of distinct prediction time horizons out to at
auditing process. This review shall include both the activities least one year, over a range of various initialisation dates
of the business trading units and of the independent risk and covering a wide range of market conditions;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/185
(b) the institution using the approach set out in (i) an institution shall conduct back-testing that is designed to
Article 285(1)(b) shall regularly validate its model to test test the key assumptions of the CCR exposure model and
whether realised current exposures are consistent with the relevant risk measures, including the modelled rela­
prediction over all margin periods within one year. If tionship between tenors of the same risk factor, and the
some of the trades in the netting set have a maturity of modelled relationships between risk factors;
less than one year, and the netting set has higher risk factor
sensitivities without these trades, the validation shall take
this into account;
(j) the performance of CCR exposure models and its risk
measures shall be subject to appropriate back-testing
practice. The back testing programme shall be capable of
(c) it shall back-test the performance of its CCR exposure identifying poor performance in an EPE model's risk
model and the model's relevant risk measures as well as measures;
the market risk factor predictions. For collateralised trades,
the prediction time horizons considered shall include those
reflecting typical margin periods of risk applied in collat­
eralised or margined trading; (k) an institution shall validate its CCR exposure models and
all risk measures out to time horizons commensurate with
the maturity of trades for which exposure is calculated
using IMM in accordance to the Article 283;
(d) if the model validation indicates that effective EPE is under­
estimated, the institution shall take the action necessary to
address the inaccuracy of the model;
(l) an institution shall regularly test the pricing models used to
calculate counterparty exposure against appropriate inde­
pendent benchmarks as part of the on-going model vali­
(e) it shall test the pricing models used to calculate CCR dation process;
exposure for a given scenario of future shocks to market
risk factors as part of the initial and on-going model vali­
dation process. Pricing models for options shall account for
the nonlinearity of option value with respect to market risk (m) the on-going validation of an institution's CCR exposure
factors; model and the relevant risk measures shall include an
assessment of the adequacy of the recent performance;
(f) the CCR exposure model shall capture the transaction-
specific information necessary to be able to aggregate (n) the frequency with which the parameters of an CCR
exposures at the level of the netting set. An institution exposure model are updated shall be assessed by an insti­
shall verify that transactions are assigned to the appropriate tution as part of the initial and on-going validation process;
netting set within the model;
(o) the initial and on-going validation of CCR exposure models
(g) the CCR exposure model shall include transaction-specific shall assess whether or not the counterparty level and
information to capture the effects of margining. It shall netting set exposure calculations of exposure are appro­
take into account both the current amount of margin priate.
and margin that would be passed between counterparties
in the future. Such a model shall account for the nature of
margin agreements that are unilateral or bilateral, the
frequency of margin calls, the margin period of risk, the 2. A measure that is more conservative than the metric used
minimum threshold of un-margined exposure the insti­ to calculate regulatory exposure value for every counterparty
tution is willing to accept, and the minimum transfer may be used in place of alpha multiplied by Effective EPE
amount. Such a model shall either estimate the mark-to- with the prior permission of the competent authorities. The
market change in the value of collateral posted or apply the degree of relative conservatism will be assessed upon initial
rules set out in Chapter 4; approval by the competent authorities and at the regular super­
visory reviews of the EPE models. An institution shall validate
the conservatism regularly. The on-going assessment of model
performance shall cover all counterparties for which the models
(h) the model validation process shall include static, historical are used.
back-testing on representative counterparty portfolios. An
institution shall conduct such back-testing on a number of
representative counterparty portfolios that are actual or
hypothetical at regular intervals. Those representative port­ 3. If back-testing indicates that a model is not sufficiently
folios shall be chosen on the basis of their sensitivity to the accurate, the competent authorities shall revoke its permission
material risk factors and combinations of risk factors to for the model, or impose appropriate measures to ensure that
which the institution is exposed; the model is improved promptly.
L 176/186 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
S e c t i o n 7 (b) the institution has made available to the competent auth­
orities written and reasoned legal opinions to the effect that,
C o n t r a c t u a l n e t t i n g
in the event of a legal challenge of the netting agreement,
Article 295 the institution's claims and obligations would not exceed
those referred to in point (a). The legal opinion shall refer
Recognition of contractual netting as risk-reducing to the applicable law:
Institutions may treat as risk reducing in accordance with
Article 298 only the following types of contractual netting
agreements where the netting agreement has been recognised
(i) the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is incor­
by competent authorities in accordance with Article 296 and
porated;
where the institution meets the requirements set out in
Article 297:
(ii) if a branch of an undertaking is involved, which is
located in a country other than that where the under­
(a) bilateral contracts for novation between an institution and taking is incorporated, the jurisdiction in which the
its counterparty under which mutual claims and obligations branch is located;
are automatically amalgamated in such a way that the
novation fixes one single net amount each time it applies
so as to create a single new contract that replaces all former
contracts and all obligations between parties pursuant to (iii) the jurisdiction whose law governs the individual trans­
those contracts and is binding on the parties; actions included in the netting agreement;
(b) other bilateral agreements between an institution and its (iv) the jurisdiction whose law governs any contract or
counterparty; agreement necessary to effect the contractual netting;
(c) contractual cross-product netting agreements for institutions (c) credit risk to each counterparty is aggregated to arrive at a
that have received the approval to use the method set out in single legal exposure across transactions with each counter­
Section 6 for transactions falling under the scope of that party. This aggregation shall be factored into credit limit
method. Competent authorities shall report to EBA a list of purposes and internal capital purposes;
the contractual cross-product netting agreements approved.
(d) the contract shall not contain any clause which, in the event
of default of a counterparty, permits a non-defaulting
Netting across transactions entered into by different legal
counterparty to make limited payments only, or no
entities of a group shall not be recognised for the purposes
payments at all, to the estate of the defaulting party, even
of calculating the own funds requirements.
if the defaulting party is a net creditor (i.e. walk away
clause).
Article 296
Recognition of contractual netting agreements If any of the competent authorities are not satisfied that the
contractual netting is legally valid and enforceable under the law
1. Competent authorities shall recognise a contractual
of each of the jurisdictions referred to in point (b) the
netting agreement only where the conditions in paragraph 2
contractual netting agreement shall not be recognised as risk-
and, where relevant, 3 are fulfilled.
reducing for either of the counterparties. Competent authorities
shall inform each other accordingly.
2. The following conditions shall be fulfilled by all
contractual netting agreements used by an institution for the 3. The legal opinions referred to in point (b) may be drawn
purposes of determining exposure value in this Part: up by reference to types of contractual netting. The following
additional conditions shall be fulfilled by contractual cross-
product netting agreements:
(a) the institution has concluded a contractual netting
agreement with its counterparty which creates a single
legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such (a) the net sum referred to in point (a) of paragraph 2 is the net
that, in the event of default by the counterparty it would sum of the positive and negative close out values of any
be entitled to receive or obliged to pay only the net sum of included individual bilateral master agreement and of the
the positive and negative mark-to-market values of included positive and negative mark-to-market value of the individual
individual transactions; transactions (the 'Cross-Product Net Amount');
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/187
(b) the legal opinions referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2 (ii) the notional principal amounts or underlying values
shall address the validity and enforceability of the entire referred to in Article 274(2).
contractual cross-product netting agreement under its
terms and the impact of the netting arrangement on the
material provisions of any included individual bilateral
In the application of Section 4, in determining the notional
master agreement.
amount referred to in Article 275(1) institutions may take
into account the contract for novation for the purposes of
calculating the notional principal amount In such cases,
Article 297
institutions shall apply the percentages of Table 3.
Obligations of institutions
1. An institution shall establish and maintain procedures to
ensure that the legal validity and enforceability of its contractual (c) In the case of other netting agreements, institutions shall
netting is reviewed in the light of changes in the law of relevant apply Section 3 as follows:
jurisdictions referred to in Article 296(2)(b).
(i) the current replacement cost referred to in Article 274(1)
2. The institution shall maintain all required documentation for the contracts included in a netting agreement shall
relating to its contractual netting in its files. be obtained by taking account of the actual hypothetical
net replacement cost which results from the agreement;
in the case where netting leads to a net obligation for
3. The institution shall factor the effects of netting into its the institution calculating the net replacement cost, the
measurement of each counterparty's aggregate credit risk current replacement cost is calculated as '0';
exposure and the institution shall manage its CCR on the
basis of those effects of that measurement.
(ii) the figure for potential future credit exposure referred to
in Article 274(2) for all contracts included in a netting
4. In the case of contractual cross-product netting agreement shall be reduced in accordance with the
agreements referred to in Article 295, the institution shall following formula:
maintain procedures under Article 296(2)(c) to verify that any
transaction which is to be included in a netting set is covered
by a legal opinion referred to in Article 296(2)(b).
Taking into account the contractual cross-product netting
PCE
r ed ¼
0:4 · PCE
g ross þ
0:6 · NGR · PCE
g ross
agreement, the institution shall continue to comply with the
requirements for the recognition of bilateral netting and the
requirements of Chapter 4 for the recognition of credit risk
where:
mitigation, as applicable, with respect to each included indi­
vidual bilateral master agreement and transaction.
PCE
red
= the reduced figure for potential future credit
Article 298 exposure for all contracts with a given
counterparty included in a legally valid
Effects of recognition of netting as risk-reducing
bilateral netting agreement;
1. The following treatment applies to contractual netting
agreements:
PCE
gross
= the sum of the figures for potential future
credit exposure for all contracts with a given
(a) netting for the purposes of Sections 5 and 6 shall be counterparty which are included in a legally
recognised as set out in those Sections; valid bilateral netting agreement and are
calculated by multiplying their notional
principal amounts by the percentages set
(b) in the case of contracts for novation, the single net amounts out in Table 1;
fixed by such contracts rather than the gross amounts
involved, may be weighted.
NGR = the net-to-gross ratio calculated as the
quotient of the net replacement cost for all
In the application of Section 3, institutions may take the contracts included in a legally valid bilateral
contract for novation into account when determining: netting agreement with a given counterparty
(numerator) and the gross replacement cost
for all contracts included in a legally valid
(i) the current replacement cost referred to in bilateral netting agreement with that
Article 274(1); counterparty (denominator).
L 176/188 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. When carrying out the calculation of the potential future 2. When calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts for
credit exposure in accordance with the formula set out in counterparty risk of items in the trading book, institutions
paragraph 1, institutions may treat perfectly matching shall comply with the following principles:
contracts included in the netting agreement as if they were a
single contract with a notional principal equivalent to the net
receipts.
(a) in the case of total return swap credit derivatives and credit
default swap credit derivatives, to obtain a figure for
potential future credit exposure under the method set out
in Section 3, the nominal amount of the instrument shall be
In the application of Article 275(1) institutions may treat multiplied by the following percentages:
perfectly matching contracts included in the netting agreement
as if they were a single contract with a notional principal
equivalent to the net receipts, and the notional principal
amounts shall be multiplied by the percentages given in Table (i) 5 %, where the reference obligation is one that, if it gave
3. rise to a direct exposure of the institution, would be a
qualifying item for the purposes of Part Three, Title IV,
Chapter 2;
For the purposes of this paragraph, perfectly matching contracts
are forward foreign-exchange contracts or similar contracts in (ii) 10 %, where the reference obligation is one that, if it
which a notional principal is equivalent to cash flows if the cash gave rise to a direct exposure of the institution, would
flows fall due on the same value date and fully in the same not be a qualifying item for the purposes of Part Three,
currency. Title IV, Chapter 2.
In the case of an institution whose exposure arising from a
3. For all other contracts included in a netting agreement, credit default swap represents a long position in the under­
the percentages applicable may be reduced as indicated in lying, the percentage for potential future credit exposure
Table 6: may be 0 %, unless the credit default swap is subject to
close-out upon the insolvency of the entity whose
exposure arising from the swap represents a short
position in the underlying, even though the underlying
has not defaulted.
Table 6
Foreign-
Interest-rate
Original maturity exchange Where the credit derivative provides protection in relation
contracts
contracts
to 'nth to default' amongst a number of underlying
obligations, an institution shall determine which of the
One year or less 0,35 % 1,50 %
percentage figures set out in the first subparagraph applies
More than one year but not more than 0,75 % 3,75 % by reference to the obligation with the nth lowest credit
two years quality which, if incurred by the institution, would be a
qualifying item for the purposes of Part Three, Title IV,
Additional allowance for each 0,75 % 2,25 % Chapter 2;
additional year
(b) institutions shall not use the Financial Collateral Simple
4. In the case of interest-rate contracts, institutions may,
Method set out in Article 222 for the recognition of the
subject to the consent of their competent authorities, choose
effects of financial collateral;
either original or residual maturity.
(c) in the case of repurchase transactions and securities or
commodities lending or borrowing transactions booked in
S e c t i o n 8
the trading book, institutions may recognise as eligible
I t e m s i n t h e t r a d i n g b o o k collateral all financial instruments and commodities that
are eligible to be included in the trading book;
Article 299
Items in the trading book
1. For the purposes of the application of this Article, Annex (d) for exposures arising from OTC derivative instruments
II shall include a reference to derivative instruments for the booked in the trading book, institutions may recognise
transfer of credit risk as mentioned in point (8) of Section C commodities that are eligible to be included in the trading
of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC. book as eligible collateral;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/189
(e) for the purposes of calculating volatility adjustments where S e c t i o n 9
such financial instruments or commodities which are not
O w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s f o r e x p o s u r e s t o
eligible under Chapter 4 are lent, sold or provided, or
a c e n t r a l c o u n t e r p a r t y
borrowed, purchased or received by way of collateral or
otherwise under such a transaction, and an institution is Article 300
using the Supervisory volatility adjustments approach
under Section 3 of Chapter 4, institutions shall treat such Definitions
instruments and commodities in the same way as non-main
For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall
index equities listed on a recognised exchange;
apply:
(1) 'bankruptcy remote', in relation to client assets, means that
(f) where an institution is using the Own Estimates of Volatility
effective arrangements exist which ensure that those assets
adjustments approach under Section 3 of Chapter 4 in
will not be available to the creditors of a CCP or of a
respect of financial instruments or commodities which are
clearing member in the event of the insolvency of that
not eligible under Chapter 4, it shall calculate volatility
CCP or clearing member respectively, or that the assets
adjustments for each individual item. Where an institution
will not be available to the clearing member to cover
has obtained the approval to use the Internal Models
losses it incurred following the default of a client or
Approach defined in Chapter 4, it may also apply that
clients other than those that provided those assets;
approach in the trading book;
(2) 'CCP-related transaction' means a contract or a transaction
(g) in relation to the recognition of master netting agreements listed in Article 301(1) between a client and a clearing
covering repurchase transactions, securities or commodities member that is directly related to a contract or a transaction
lending or borrowing transactions, or other capital market- listed in that paragraph between that clearing member and a
driven transactions, institutions shall only recognise netting CCP;
across positions in the trading book and the non-trading
book when the netted transactions fulfil the following
conditions:
(3) 'clearing member' means a clearing member as defined in
point (14) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012;
(i) all transactions are marked to market daily;
(4) 'client' means a client as defined in point (15) of Article 2
of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 or an undertaking that has
established indirect clearing arrangements with a clearing
member in accordance with Article 4(3) of that Regulation.
(ii) any items borrowed, purchased or received under the
transactions may be recognised as eligible financial
collateral under Chapter 4 without the application of
points (c) to (f) of this paragraph; Article 301
Material scope
1. This Section applies to the following contracts and trans­
actions for as long as they are outstanding with a CCP:
(h) where a credit derivative included in the trading book forms
part of an internal hedge and the credit protection is
recognised under this Regulation in accordance with
Article 204, institutions shall apply one of the following (a) the contracts listed in Annex II and credit derivatives;
approaches:
(b) repurchase transactions;
(i) treat it as if there were no counterparty risk arising from
the position in that credit derivative;
(c) securities or commodities lending or borrowing trans­
actions;
(ii) consistently include for the purpose of calculating the
own funds requirements for counterparty credit risk all
(d) long settlement transactions;
credit derivatives in the trading book forming part of
internal hedges or purchased as protection against a
CCR exposure where the credit protection is recognised
as eligible under Chapter 4. (e) margin lending transactions.
L 176/190 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. Institutions may choose whether to apply one of the 4. As an alternative to the approach specified in paragraph 3,
following two treatments to the contracts and transactions where an institution is a client, it may calculate the own funds
outstanding with a Q
CCP
listed in paragraph 1: requirements for its CCP-related transactions with the clearing
member in accordance with Article 305(2) provided that both
of the following conditions are met:
(a) the treatment for trade exposures and exposures from
default fund contributions set out in Article 306, except
for the treatment set out in paragraph 1(b) of that Article,
and in Article 307, respectively; (a) the positions and assets of that institution related to those
transactions are distinguished and segregated within the
meaning of Article 39 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012,
at the level of both the clearing member and the CCP,
(b) the treatment set out in Article 310.
from the positions and assets of both the clearing
member and the other clients of that clearing member
and as a result of that segregation those positions and
assets are bankruptcy remote in the event of the default
3. Institutions shall apply the treatment set out in
or insolvency of the clearing member or one or more of
Article 306, except for the treatment set out in paragraph
its other clients;
(1)(a) of that Article, and in Article 309, as applicable, to the
contracts and transactions outstanding with a non-qualifying
CCP listed in paragraph 1 of this Article.
(b) relevant laws, regulations, rules and contractual
arrangements applicable to or binding that institution or
Article 302
the CCP ensure that in the event of default or insolvency
Monitoring of exposures to CCPs of the clearing member, the transfer of the institution's
positions relating to those contracts and transactions and
1. Institutions shall monitor all their exposures to CCPs and
of the corresponding collateral to another clearing member
shall lay down procedures for the regular reporting of
within the relevant margin period of risk.
information on those exposures to senior management and
appropriate committee or committees of the management body.
5. Where an institution acting as a clearing member enters
2. Institutions shall assess, through appropriate scenario
into a contractual arrangement with a client of another clearing
analysis and stress testing, whether the level of own funds
member in order to ensure that client the portability of assets
held against exposures to a CCP, including potential future
and positions referred to in point (b) of paragraph 4, that
credit exposures, exposures from default fund contributions
institution may attribute an exposure value of zero to the
and, where the institution is acting as a clearing member,
contingent obligation that is created due to that contractual
exposures resulting from contractual arrangements as laid
arrangement.
down in Article 304, adequately relates to the inherent risks
of those exposures.
Article 304
Article 303
Treatment of clearing members' exposures to clients
Treatment of clearing members' exposures to CCPs
1. Where an institution acts as a clearing member and, in
1. Where an institution acts as a clearing member, either for
that capacity, acts as a financial intermediary between a client
its own purposes or as a financial intermediary between a client
and a CCP, it shall calculate the own funds requirements for its
and a CCP, it shall calculate the own funds requirements for its
CCP-related transactions with the client in accordance with
exposures to a CCP in accordance with Article 301(2) and (3).
Sections 1 to 8 of this Chapter and with Title VI of Part
Three, as applicable.
2. Where an institution acts as a clearing member and, in
that capacity, acts as a financial intermediary between a client
and a CCP, it shall calculate the own funds requirements for its
CCP-related transactions with the client in accordance with the 2. Where an institution acting as a clearing member enters
Sections 1 to 8 of this Chapter, as applicable. into a contractual arrangement with a client of another clearing
member that facilitates, in accordance with Article 48(5) and
(6), of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, the transfer of positions
and collateral referred to in Article 305(2)(b) of this Regulation
3. Where an institution is a client of a clearing member, it for that client, and that contractual agreement gives rise to a
shall calculate the own funds requirements for its CCP-related contingent obligation for that institution, that institution may
transactions with the clearing member in accordance with the attribute an exposure value of zero to that contingent
Sections 1 to 8 of this Chapter, as applicable. obligation.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/191
3. An institution acting as a clearing member may apply a Article 305
shorter margin period of risk when calculating the own fund
Treatment of clients' exposures
requirement for its exposures to a client in accordance with the
Internal Model Method. The margin period of risk applied by 1. Where an institution is a client, it shall calculate the own
the institution shall not be less than five days. funds requirements for its CCP-related transactions with its
clearing member in accordance with Sections 1 to 8 of this
Chapter and with Title VI of Part Three, as applicable.
4. An institution acting as a clearing member may multiply
its EAD by a scalar when calculating the own fund requirement
for its exposures to a client in accordance with the Mark-to- 2. Without prejudice to the approach specified in paragraph
Market Method, the Standardised Method or the Original 1, where an institution is a client, it may calculate the own
Exposure Method. The scalars that the institutions may apply funds requirements for its trade exposures for CCP-related trans­
are the following: actions with its clearing member in accordance with Article 306
provided that all the following conditions are met:
(a) 0,71 for a margin period of risk of five days;
(a) the positions and assets of that institution related to those
transactions are distinguished and segregated, at the level of
both the clearing member and the CCP, from the positions
(b) 0,77 for a margin period of risk of six days;
and assets of both the clearing member and the other
clients of that clearing member and as a result of that
distinction and segregation those positions and assets are
(c) 0,84 for a margin period of risk of seven days; bankruptcy remote in the event of the default or insolvency
of the clearing member or one or more of its other clients;
(d) 0,89 for a margin period of risk of eight days;
(b) laws, regulations, rules and contractual arrangements
applicable to or binding that institution or the CCP facilitate
the transfer of the client's positions relating to those
(e) 0,95 for a margin period of risk of nine days;
contracts and transactions and of the corresponding
collateral to another clearing member within the applicable
margin period of risk in the event of default or insolvency
(f) 1 for a margin period of risk of ten days or more. of the original clearing member. In such circumstance, the
client's positions and the collateral shall be transferred at
market value unless the client requests to close out the
position at market value;
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the margin periods of risk that institutions may use for
the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4.
(c) the institution has available an independent, written and
reasoned legal opinion that concludes that, in the event of
legal challenge, the relevant courts and administrative auth­
When developing those draft regulatory technical standards, orities would find that the client would bear no losses on
EBA shall apply the following principles: account of the insolvency of its clearing member or of any
of its clearing member's clients under the laws of the juris­
diction of the institution, its clearing member and the CCP,
the law governing the transactions and contracts the insti­
(a) it shall define the margin period of risk for each of the types
tution clears through the CCP, the law governing the
of contracts and transactions listed in Article 301(1);
collateral, and the law governing any contract or
agreement necessary to meet the condition in point (b);
(b) the margin periods of risk to be defined in point (a) shall
reflect the close-out period of the contracts and transactions
referred to in that point.
(d) the CCP is a Q
CCP
.
3. Without prejudice to the conditions specified in paragraph
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
2, where an institution that is a client is not protected from
the Commission by 30 June 2014.
losses in the case that the clearing member and another client
of the clearing member jointly default, but all the other
conditions set out in paragraph 2 are met, the client may
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory calculate the own funds requirements for its trade exposures
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in for CCP-related transactions with its clearing member in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) accordance with Article 306, subject to replacing the 2 % risk
No 1093/2010. weight in paragraph 1(a) of that Article with a 4 % risk weight.
L 176/192 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Where an institution that is a client accesses the services Article 308
of a CCP through indirect clearing arrangements, in accordance
Own funds requirements for pre-funded contributions to
with Article 4(3) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, that insti­
tution may apply the treatment set out in paragraph 2 or 3
the default fund of a Q
CCP
only where the conditions in each paragraph are met at every 1. The exposure value for an institution's pre-funded
level of the chain of intermediaries. contribution to the default fund of a Q
CCP
(DFi) shall be the
amount paid in or the market value of the assets delivered by
Article 306 that institution reduced by any amount of that contribution that
the Q
CCP
has already used to absorb its losses following the
Own funds requirements for trade exposures
default of one or more of its clearing members.
1. An institution shall apply the following treatment to its
trade exposures with CCPs: 2. An institution shall calculate the own funds requirement
(K
i
) to cover the exposure arising from its pre-funded
(a) it shall apply a risk weight of 2 % to the exposure values of contribution (DF i ) as follows:
all its trade exposures with QCCPs;
(b) it shall apply the risk weight used for the Standardised
K
i ¼
Í1
þ
β ·
N
N
– 2
Î·
DD FF
C
Mi · K
CM
Approach to credit risk as set out in Article 107(2)(b) to
all its trade exposures with non-qualifying CCPs; where:
(c) where an institution is acting as a financial intermediary β = the concentration factor communicated to the insti­
between a client and a CCP and the terms of the CCP- tution by the CCP;
related transaction stipulate that the institution is not
obligated to reimburse the client for any losses suffered
N = the number of clearing members communicated to the
due to changes in the value of that transaction in the
institution by the CCP;
event that the CCP defaults, the exposure value of the trans­
action with the CCP that corresponds to that CCP-related
transaction is equal to zero.
DF
C M
= the sum of pre-funded co ntributions of all clearing
DF
i
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, where assets posted as
im nse tm itub te ir os
n
o bf yt h te
h
eC C CP
C Pð ;X i Þ
communicated to the
collateral to a CCP or a clearing member are bankruptcy
remote in the event that the CCP, the clearing member or
one or more of the other clients of the clearing member K C M = the sum of the own funds requirements of all clearing
becomes insolvent, an institution may attribute an exposure members of the CCP calculated in accordance with the
value of zero to the counterparty credit risk exposures for applicable formula specified
those assets. K
i
in paragraph 3
ðXi
Þ.
3. An institution shall calculate exposure values of its trade
exposures with a CCP in accordance with Sections 1 to 8 of this 3. An institution shall c alculate K
C M
as follows:
Chapter, as applicable.
(a) where K
C CP
≤ DF
C CP
, the institution shall use the following
4. An institution shall calculate the risk weighted exposure formula:
amounts for its trade exposures with CCPs for the purposes of
A exr pti oc sle
u
r9 es2 ( w3 i)
t
ha s
C
Cth Pe
s ,
s cu am
lc
uo laf
t
et dh e
i
ne ax cp co os ru dr ae
n
cv ea lu we is
th
o pf ai rt as
g
rt ar pad he
s
K
CM ¼
c
1
· DF
äC M
;
2 and 3 of this Article, multiplied by the risk weight determined
in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article. (b) where DF C CP < K C CP ≤DF*, the institution shall use the
following formula:
Article 307
K
CM
c
2
· K
CCP
– DF
CCP
c
1
· DF
ä
– K
CCP
;
Own funds requirements for pre-funded contributions to ¼ ð Þ þ ð Þ
the default fund of a CCP
(c) where DF* < K
C CP
, the institution shall use the following
An institution acting as a clearing member shall apply the formula:
following treatment to its exposures arising from its
contributions to the default fund of a CCP:
(a) it shall calculate the own funds requirement for its pre- K CM ¼ c 2 · μ · ðK CCP – DF ä Þ þ c 2 · DF äC M
funded contributions to the default fund of a Q
C CP
in
accordance with the approach set out in Article 308;
where:
(b) it shall calculate the own funds requirement for its pre-
funded contributions to the default fund of a non-qualifying DF
C CP
= the pre-funded financial resources of the CCP
CCP in accordance with the approach set out in Article 309. communicated to the institution by the CCP;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/193
K
C CP
= the hypothetical capital of the CCP communicated to Article 310
the institution by the CCP;
Alternative calculation of own funds requirement for
exposures to a Q
C CP
DF* = DF CCP þ DF äC M ; An institution shall apply the following formula to calculate the
own funds requirement (K
i
) for the exposures arising from its
trade exposures and the trade exposures of its clients (TE
i
) and
DF äC M = DF CM – 2 · DF i ; pre-funded contributions (DF i ) to the default fund of a Q CCP :
1
K
i ¼
8% · min 2% · TE
i þ
1 250% · DF
i
; 20% · TE
i â
DF
i
= the average pre-funded contribution,
N
· DF
CM
,
Ü
communicated to the institution by the CCP;
Article 311
Own funds requirements for exposures to CCPs that cease
c
1
= a capital factor equal to to meet certain conditions
1:6%
1. An institution shall apply the treatment set out in this
max
( DF ä
0:3; 0:16%
) Article where one or both of the following conditions have
K
CCP
been met:
Ê Ì
c
2
= a capital factor equal to 100 %;
(a) the institution has received from a CCP a notification
required by point (j)(ii) of Article 50b of Regulation (EU)
μ = 1,2.
No 648/2012 that the CCP has stopped calculating K
C CP
;
4. An institution shall calculate the risk weighted exposure (b) it has become known to the institution, following a public
amounts for exposures arising from an institution's pre-funded announcement or notification from the competent authority
contribution for the purposes of Article 92(3) as the own funds of a CCP used by the institution or from that CCP itself, that
requirement (K
i
) determined in accordance with paragraph 2 the CCP will no longer comply with the conditions for
multiplied by 12,5. authorisation or recognition, as applicable.
5. Where K
C CP
is equal to zero, institutions shall use the 2. Where only the condition in point (a) of paragraph 1 has
value for c1 of 0,16 % for the purpose of the calculation in been met, the competent authority of the institution shall verify
paragraph 3. the reasons why the CCP has stopped calculating K C CP .
Where the competent authority considers that the reasons
Article 309
referred to in the first subparagraph are valid, it may permit
Own funds requirements for pre-funded contributions to institutions in its Member State to apply the treatment set out
the default fund of a non-qualifying CCP and for unfunded in Article 310 to their trade exposures and default fund
contributions to a non-qualifying CCP contributions to that CCP. Where it grants such permission, it
shall disclose the reasons for its decision.
1. An institution shall apply the following formula to
calculate the own funds requirement (K
i
) for the exposures
arising from its pre-funded contributions to the default fund Where the competent authority considers that the reasons
of a non-qualifying CCP (DF
i
) and from unfunded contributions referred to in the first subparagraph are not valid, all institutions
(UC i) to such CCP: in its Member State, irrespective of the treatment they chose in
accordance with Article 301(2), shall apply the treatment set
K
i ¼
c2 · μ · ðDF
i þ
UC
i Þ out in points (a) to (d) of paragraph 3 of this Article.
where c
2
·and μ are defined as in Article 308(3).
3. Where the condition in point (b) of paragraph 1 has been
met, irrespective of whether the condition in point (a) of that
2. For the purpose of paragraph 1, unfunded contributions
paragraph has been met or not, an institution shall, within three
means contributions that an institution acting as a clearing
months of the circumstance set out in point (b) of that
member has contractually committed to provide to a CCP
paragraph arising, or earlier where the competent authority of
after the CCP has depleted its default fund to cover the losses
the institution requires it, do the following with respect to its
it incurred following the default of one or more of its clearing
exposures to that CCP:
members.
(a) cease to apply the treatment it chose in accordance with
3. An institution shall calculate the risk weighted exposure Article 301(2);
amounts for exposures arising from an institution's pre-funded
contribution for the purposes of Article 92(3) as the own funds
requirement (K
i
) determined in accordance with paragraph 1 (b) apply the treatment set out in point (b) of Article 306(1) to
multiplied by 12,5. its trade exposures to that CCP;
L 176/194 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) apply the treatment set out in Article 309 to its pre-funded (c) the modalities of the notification required in paragraph 3.
contributions to the default fund of that CCP and to its
unfunded contributions to that CCP;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
(d) treat exposures other than those listed in points (b) and (c)
to that CCP as exposures to a corporate in accordance with
the Standardised Approach for credit risk as set out in Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
Chapter 2. technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
TITLE III
OWN FUNDS REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATIONAL RISK
Article 313
CHAPTER 1
Reverting to the use of less sophisticated approaches
General principles governing the use of the different
1. Institutions that use the Standardised Approach shall not
approaches
revert to the use of the Basic Indicator Approach unless the
Article 312 conditions in paragraph 3 are met.
Permission and notification
2. Institutions that use the Advanced Measurement
1. To qualify for use of the Standardised Approach, insti­
Approaches shall not revert to the use of the Standardised
tutions shall meet the criteria set out in Article 320, in
Approach or the Basic Indicator Approach unless the conditions
addition to meeting the general risk management standards
in paragraph 3 are met.
set out in Articles 74 and 85 of Directive 2013/36/EU. Insti­
tutions shall notify the competent authorities prior to using the
Standardised Approach.
3. An institution may only revert to the use of a less sophis­
ticated approach for operational risk where both the following
conditions are met:
Competent authorities shall permit institutions to use an alter­
native relevant indicator for the business lines of retail banking
and commercial banking where the conditions set out in
(a) the institution has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Articles 319(2) and 320 are met.
competent authority that the use of a less sophisticated
approach is not proposed in order to reduce the operational
2. Competent authorities shall permit institutions to use risk related own funds requirements of the institution, is
Advanced Measurement Approaches based on their own oper­ necessary on the basis of nature and complexity of the
ational risk measurement systems, where all the qualitative and institution and would not have a material adverse impact
quantitative standards set out in Articles 321 and 322 on the solvency of the institution or its ability to manage
respectively are met and where institutions meet the general operational risk effectively;
risk management standards set out in Articles 74 and 85 of
Directive 2013/36/EU and Section II, Chapter 3, Title VII of that
(b) the institution has received the prior permission of the
Directive.
competent authority.
Institutions shall also apply for permission from their
competent authorities where they want to implement material Article 314
extensions and changes to those Advanced Measurement
Combined use of different approaches
Approaches. Competent authorities shall grant the permission
only where institutions would continue to meet the standards 1. Institutions may use a combination of approaches
specified in the first subparagraph following those material provided that they obtain permission from the competent auth­
extensions and changes. orities. Competent authorities shall grant such permission where
the requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 4, as applicable, are
met.
3. Institutions shall notify the competent authorities of all
changes to their Advanced Measurement Approaches models.
2. An institution may use an Advanced Measurement
Approach in combination with either the Basic Indicator
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
Approach or the Standardised Approach, where both of the
specify the following:
following conditions are met:
(a) the assessment methodology under which the competent
(a) the combination of Approaches used by the institution
authorities permit institutions to use Advanced
captures all its operational risks and competent authorities
Measurement Approaches;
are satisfied with the methodology used by the institution to
cover different activities, geographical locations, legal
(b) the conditions for assessing the materiality of extensions structures or other relevant divisions determined on an
and changes to the Advanced Measurement Approaches; internal basis;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/195
(b) the criteria set out in Article 320 and the standards set out average over three years of the relevant indicator as set out in
in Articles 321 and 322 are fulfilled for the part of activities Article 316.
covered by the Standardised Approach and the Advanced
Measurement Approaches respectively.
Institutions shall calculate the average over three years of the
relevant indicator on the basis of the last three twelve-monthly
3. For institutions that want to use an Advanced observations at the end of the financial year. When audited
Measurement Approach in combination with either the Basic figures are not available, institutions may use business estimates.
Indicator Approach or the Standardised Approach competent
authorities shall impose the following additional conditions
for granting permission: 2. Where an institution has been in operation for less than
three years it may use forward-looking business estimates in
calculating the relevant indicator, provided that it starts using
(a) on the date of implementation of an Advanced
historical data as soon as it is available.
Measurement Approach, a significant part of the institu­
tion's operational risks are captured by that Approach;
3. Where an institution can prove to its competent authority
that, due to a merger, an acquisition or a disposal of entities or
(b) the institution takes a commitment to apply the Advanced
activities, using a three year average to calculate the relevant
Measurement Approach across a material part of its oper­
indicator would lead to a biased estimation for the own funds
ations within a time schedule that was submitted to and
requirement for operational risk, the competent authority may
approved by its competent authorities.
permit the institution to amend the calculation in a way that
would take into account such events and shall duly inform EBA
4. An institution may request permission from a competent thereof. In such circumstances, the competent authority may, on
authority to use a combination of the Basic Indicator Approach its own initiative, also require an institution to amend the
and the Standardised Approach only in exceptional circum­ calculation.
stances such as the recent acquisition of new business which
may require a transition period for the application of the Stan­
4. Where for any given observation, the relevant indicator is
dardised Approach.
negative or equal to zero, institutions shall not take into
account this figure in the calculation of the average over
A competent authority shall grant such permission only where three years. Institutions shall calculate the average over three
the institution has committed to apply the Standardised years as the sum of positive figures divided by the number of
Approach within a time schedule that was submitted to and positive figures.
approved by the competent authority.
Article 316
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following: Relevant indicator
1. For institutions applying accounting standards established
(a) the conditions that competent authorities shall use when by Directive 86/635/EEC, based on the accounting categories
assessing the methodology referred to in point (a) of for the profit and loss account of institutions under Article 27
paragraph 2; of that Directive, the relevant indicator is the sum of the
elements listed in Table 1 of this paragraph. Institutions shall
include each element in the sum with its positive or negative
(b) the conditions that the competent authorities shall use when sign.
deciding whether to impose the additional conditions
referred to in paragraph 3.
Table 1
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to 1 Interest receivable and similar income
the Commission by 31 December 2016.
2 Interest payable and similar charges
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) 3 Income from shares and other variable/fixed-yield securities
No 1093/2010.
4 Commissions/fees receivable
CHAPTER 2
Basic indicator approach 5 Commissions/fees payable
Article 315
Own funds requirement 6 Net profit or net loss on financial operations
1. Under the Basic Indicator Approach, the own funds
requirement for operational risk is equal to 15 % of the 7 Other operating income
L 176/196 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Institutions shall adjust these elements to reflect the following 2. Institutions shall calculate the own funds requirement for
qualifications: operational risk as the average over three years of the sum of
the annual own funds requirements across all business lines
referred to in Table 2 of paragraph 4. The annual own funds
(a) institutions shall calculate the relevant indicator before the requirement of each business line is equal to the product of the
deduction of any provisions and operating expenses. Insti­ corresponding beta factor referred to in that Table and the part
tutions shall include in operating expenses fees paid for of the relevant indicator mapped to the respective business line.
outsourcing services rendered by third parties which are
not a parent or subsidiary of the institution or a subsidiary
of a parent which is also the parent of the institution.
Institutions may use expenditure on the outsourcing of 3. In any given year, institutions may offset negative own
services rendered by third parties to reduce the relevant funds requirements resulting from a negative part of the
indicator where the expenditure is incurred from an under­ relevant indicator in any business line with positive own
taking subject to rules under, or equivalent to, this Regu­ funds requirements in other business lines without limit.
lation; However, where the aggregate own funds requirement across
all business lines within a given year is negative, institutions
shall use the value zero as the input to the numerator for
(b) institutions shall not use the following elements in the that year.
calculation of the relevant indicator:
(i) realised profits/losses from the sale of non-trading book 4. Institutions shall calculate the average over three years of
items; the sum referred to in paragraph 2 on the basis of the last three
twelve-monthly observations at the end of the financial year.
When audited figures are not available, institutions may use
(ii) income from extraordinary or irregular items;
business estimates.
(iii) income derived from insurance.
Where an institution can prove to its competent authority that,
(c) when revaluation of trading items is part of the profit and due to a merger, an acquisition or a disposal of entities or
loss statement, institutions may include revaluation. When activities, using a three year average to calculate the relevant
institutions apply Article 36(2) of Directive 86/635/EEC, indicator would lead to a biased estimation for the own funds
they shall include revaluation booked in the profit and requirement for operational risk, the competent authority may
loss account. permit institutions to amend the calculation in a way that
would take into account such events and shall duly inform
EBA thereof. In such circumstances, the competent authority
2. When institutions apply accounting standards different may, on its own initiative, also require an institution to
from those established by Directive 86/635/EEC, they shall amend the calculation.
calculate the relevant indicator on the basis of data that best
reflect the definition set out in this Article.
Where an institution has been in operation for less than three
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to years it may use forward-looking business estimates in calcu­
determine the methodology to calculate the relevant indicator lating the relevant indicator, provided that it starts using
referred to in paragraph 2. historical data as soon as it is available.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2017. Table 2
Percentage
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Business line List of activities (beta factor)
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) Corporate finance Underwriting of financial 18 %
No 1093/2010. instruments or placing of financial
instruments on a firm commitment
basis
CHAPTER 3 Services related to underwriting
Investment advice
Standardised Approach Advice to undertakings on capital
structure, industrial strategy and
Article 317 related matters and advice and
services relating to the mergers and
Own funds requirement
the purchase of undertakings
Investment research and financial
1. Under the Standardised Approach, institutions shall divide
analysis and other forms of general
their activities into the business lines set out in Table 2 of
recommendation relating to trans­
paragraph 4 and in accordance with the principles set out in
actions in financial instruments
Article 318.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/197
Percentage (b) institutions shall allocate any activity which cannot be
Business line List of activities
(beta factor) readily mapped into the business line framework, but
which represents an ancillary activity to an activity
Trading and sales Dealing on own account 18 % included in the framework, to the business line it
Money broking
supports. Where more than one business line is supported
Reception and transmission of
through the ancillary activity, institutions shall use an
orders in relation to one or more
objective-mapping criterion;
financial instruments
Execution of orders on behalf of
clients
(c) where an activity cannot be mapped into a particular
Placing of financial instruments
without a firm commitment basis business line then institutions shall use the business line
Operation of Multilateral Trading yielding the highest percentage. The same business line
Facilities equally applies to any ancillary activity associated with
that activity;
Retail brokerage Reception and transmission of 12 %
(Activities with orders in relation to one or more
natural persons or financial instruments (d) institutions may use internal pricing methods to allocate the
with SMEs meeting Execution of orders on behalf of relevant indicator between business lines. Costs generated in
the criteria set out clients one business line which are imputable to a different
in Article 123 for Placing of financial instruments business line may be reallocated to the business line to
the retail exposure without a firm commitment basis
which they pertain;
class)
Commercial banking Acceptance of deposits and other 15 % (e) the mapping of activities into business lines for operational
repayable funds
risk capital purposes shall be consistent with the categories
Lending
institutions use for credit and market risks;
Financial leasing
Guarantees and commitments
(f) senior management shall be responsible for the mapping
Retail banking Acceptance of deposits and other 12 %
policy under the control of the management body of the
(Activities with repayable funds
institution;
natural persons or Lending
with SMEs meeting Financial leasing
the criteria set out Guarantees and commitments
(g) institutions shall subject the mapping process to business
in Article 123 for
the retail exposure lines to independent review.
class)
3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
Payment and Money transmission services, 18 %
settlement Issuing and administering means of to determine the conditions of application of the principles for
payment business line mapping provided in this Article.
Agency services Safekeeping and administration of 15 %
financial instruments for the EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
account of clients, including to the Commission by 31 December 2017.
custodianship and related services
such as cash/collateral management
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
Asset management Portfolio management 12 % menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
Managing of UCITS in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
Other forms of asset management No 1093/2010.
Article 319
Article 318
Alternative Standardised Approach
Principles for business line mapping
1. Under the Alternative Standardised Approach, for the
1. Institutions shall develop and document specific policies
business lines 'retail banking' and 'commercial banking', insti­
and criteria for mapping the relevant indicator for current
tutions shall apply the following:
business lines and activities into the standardised framework
set out in Article 317. They shall review and adjust those
policies and criteria as appropriate for new or changing (a) the relevant indicator is a normalised income indicator equal
business activities and risks. to the nominal amount of loans and advances multiplied by
0,035;
2. Institutions shall apply the following principles for
business line mapping: (b) the loans and advances consist of the total drawn amounts
in the corresponding credit portfolios. For the 'commercial
banking' business line, institutions shall also include
(a) institutions shall map all activities into the business lines in securities held in the non trading book in the nominal
a mutually exclusive and jointly exhaustive manner; amount of loans and advances.
L 176/198 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. To be permitted to use the Alternative Standardised (d) an institution's risk management system shall be well docu­
Approach, an institution shall meet all the following conditions: mented. An institution shall have in place routines for
ensuring compliance and policies for the treatment of
non-compliance;
(a) its retail or commercial banking activities shall account for
at least 90 % of its income;
(e) an institution shall subject its operational risk management
processes and measurement systems to regular reviews
(b) a significant proportion of its retail or commercial banking
performed by internal or external auditors;
activities shall comprise loans associated with a high PD;
(c) the Alternative Standardised Approach provides an appro­ (f) an institution's internal validation processes shall operate in
priate basis for calculating its own funds requirement for a sound and effective manner;
operational risk.
(g) data flows and processes associated with an institution's risk
Article 320 measurement system shall be transparent and accessible.
Criteria for the Standardised Approach
Article 322
The criteria referred to in the first subparagraph of
Article 312(1) are the following: Quantitative Standards
1. The quantitative standards referred to in Article 312(2)
(a) an institution shall have in place a well-documented include the standards relating to process, to internal data, to
assessment and management system for operational risk external data, to scenario analysis, to business environment and
with clear responsibilities assigned for this system. It shall to internal control factors laid down in paragraphs 2 to 6
identify its exposures to operational risk and track relevant respectively.
operational risk data, including material loss data. This
system shall be subject to regular independent review
carried out by an internal or external party possessing the 2. The standards relating to process are the following:
necessary knowledge to carry out such review;
(a) an institution shall calculate its own funds requirement as
(b) an institution's operational risk assessment system shall be comprising both expected loss and unexpected loss, unless
closely integrated into the risk management processes of the expected loss is adequately captured in its internal business
institution. Its output shall be an integral part of the process practices. The operational risk measure shall capture poten­
of monitoring and controlling the institution's operational tially severe tail events, achieving a soundness standard
risk profile; comparable to a 99,9 % confidence interval over a one
year period;
(c) an institution shall implement a system of reporting to
senior management that provides operational risk reports
(b) an institution's operational risk measurement system shall
to relevant functions within the institution. An institution
include the use of internal data, external data, scenario
shall have in place procedures for taking appropriate action
analysis and factors reflecting the business environment
according to the information within the reports to
and internal control systems as set out in paragraphs 3 to
management.
6. An institution shall have in place a well documented
approach for weighting the use of these four elements in
CHAPTER 4 its overall operational risk measurement system;
Advanced measurement approaches
(c) an institution's risk measurement system shall capture the
Article 321
major drivers of risk affecting the shape of the tail of the
Qualitative standards estimated distribution of losses;
The qualitative standards referred to in Article 312(2) are the
following: (d) an institution may recognise correlations in operational risk
losses across individual operational risk estimates only
where its systems for measuring correlations are sound,
(a) an institution's internal operational risk measurement
implemented with integrity, and take into account the
system shall be closely integrated into its day-to-day risk
uncertainty surrounding any such correlation estimates,
management processes;
particularly in periods of stress. An institution shall
validate its correlation assumptions using appropriate
(b) an institution shall have an independent risk management quantitative and qualitative techniques;
function for operational risk;
(e) an institution's risk measurement system shall be internally
(c) an institution shall have in place regular reporting of oper­ consistent and shall avoid the multiple counting of quali­
ational risk exposures and loss experience and shall have in tative assessments or risk mitigation techniques recognised
place procedures for taking appropriate corrective action; in other areas of this Regulation.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/199
3. The standards relating to internal data are the following: 4. The qualifying standards relating to external data are the
following:
(a) an institution shall base its internally generated operational
risk measures on a minimum historical observation period (a) an institution's operational risk measurement system shall
of five years. When an institution first moves to an use relevant external data, especially when there is reason to
Advanced Measurement Approach, it may use a three-year believe that the institution is exposed to infrequent, yet
historical observation period; potentially severe, losses. An institution shall have a
systematic process for determining the situations for
which external data shall be used and the methodologies
used to incorporate the data in its measurement system;
(b) an institution shall be able to map their historical internal
loss data into the business lines defined in Article 317 and
into the event types defined in Article 324, and to provide
these data to competent authorities upon request. In excep­
(b) an institution shall regularly review the conditions and
tional circumstances, an institution may allocate loss events
practices for external data and shall document them and
which affect the entire institution to an additional business
subject them to periodic independent review.
line "corporate items". An institution shall have in place
documented, objective criteria for allocating losses to the
specified business lines and event types. An institution
shall record the operational risk losses that are related to
credit risk and that the institution has historically included 5. An institution shall use scenario analysis of expert opinion
in the internal credit risk databases in the operational risk in conjunction with external data to evaluate its exposure to
databases and shall identify them separately. Such losses high severity events. Over time, the institution shall validate and
shall not be subject to the operational risk charge, reassess such assessments through comparison to actual loss
provided that the institution is required to continue to experience to ensure their reasonableness.
treat them as credit risk for the purposes of calculating
own funds requirements. An institution shall include oper­
ational risk losses that are related to market risks in the
scope of the own funds requirement for operational risk; 6. The qualifying standards relating to business environment
and internal control factors are the following:
(c) an institution's internal loss data shall be comprehensive in
that it captures all material activities and exposures from all
(a) an institution's firm-wide risk assessment methodology shall
appropriate sub-systems and geographic locations. An insti­
capture key business environment and internal control
tution shall be able to justify that any excluded activities or
factors that can change the institutions operational risk
exposures, both individually and in combination, would not
profile;
have a material impact on the overall risk estimates. An
institution shall define appropriate minimum loss thresholds
for internal loss data collection;
(b) an institution shall justify the choice of each factor as a
meaningful driver of risk, based on experience and
involving the expert judgment of the affected business areas;
(d) aside from information on gross loss amounts, an insti­
tution shall collect information about the date of the loss
event, any recoveries of gross loss amounts, as well as
descriptive information about the drivers or causes of the
loss event; (c) an institution shall be able to justify to competent auth­
orities the sensitivity of risk estimates to changes in the
factors and the relative weighting of the various factors.
In addition to capturing changes in risk due to
(e) an institution shall have in place specific criteria for improvements in risk controls, an institution's risk
assigning loss data arising from a loss event in a centralised measurement framework shall also capture potential
function or an activity that spans more than one business increases in risk due to greater complexity of activities or
line, as well as from related loss events over time; increased business volume;
(f) an institution shall have in place documented procedures for (d) an institution shall document its risk measurement
assessing the on-going relevance of historical loss data, framework and shall subject it to independent review
including those situations in which judgement overrides, within the institution and by competent authorities. Over
scaling, or other adjustments may be used, to what extent time, an institution shall validate and reassess the process
they may be used and who is authorised to make such and the outcomes through comparison to actual internal
decisions. loss experience and relevant external data.
L 176/200 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 323 (b) the policy's cancellation terms, where less than one year;
Impact of insurance and other risk transfer mechanisms
(c) the uncertainty of payment as well as mismatches in
1. The competent authorities shall permit institutions to
coverage of insurance policies.
recognise the impact of insurance subject to the conditions
set out in paragraphs 2 to 5 and other risk transfer mechanisms
where the institution can demonstrate that a noticeable risk 5. The reduction in own funds requirements from the recog­
mitigating effect is achieved. nition of insurances and other risk transfer mechanisms shall
not exceed 20 % of the own funds requirement for operational
risk before the recognition of risk mitigation techniques.
2. The insurance provider shall be authorised to provide
insurance or re-insurance and shall have a minimum claims
paying ability rating by an ECAI which has been determined Article 324
by EBA to be associated with credit quality step 3 or above
Loss event type classification
under the rules for the risk weighting of exposures to insti­
tutions under Title II, Chapter 2. The loss events types referred to in point (b) of Article 322(3)
are the following:
3. The insurance and the institutions' insurance framework
shall meet all the following conditions: Table 3
Event-Type Category Definition
(a) the insurance policy has an initial term of no less than one
year. For policies with a residual term of less than one year, Internal fraud Losses due to acts of a type intended to defraud,
misappropriate property or circumvent regu­
an institution shall make appropriate haircuts reflecting the
lations, the law or company policy, excluding
declining residual term of the policy, up to a full 100 %
diversity/discrimination events, which involves at
haircut for policies with a residual term of 90 days or less;
least one internal party
External fraud Losses due to acts of a type intended to defraud,
(b) the insurance policy has a minimum notice period for
misappropriate property or circumvent the law,
cancellation of the contract of 90 days;
by a third party
Employment Losses arising from acts inconsistent with
(c) the insurance policy has no exclusions or limitations
Practices and employment, health or safety laws or agree­
triggered by supervisory actions or, in the case of a failed Workplace Safety ments, from payment of personal injury claims,
institution, that preclude the institution's receiver or or from diversity/discrimination events
liquidator from recovering the damages suffered or
expenses incurred by the institution, except in respect of Clients, Products & Losses arising from an unintentional or negligent
events occurring after the initiation of receivership or liqui­ Business Practices failure to meet a professional obligation to
dation proceedings in respect of the institution. However, specific clients (including fiduciary and suitability
requirements), or from the nature or design of a
the insurance policy may exclude any fine, penalty, or
product
punitive damages resulting from actions by the competent
authorities;
Damage to Physical Losses arising from loss or damage to physical
Assets assets from natural disaster or other events
(d) the risk mitigation calculations shall reflect the insurance
Business disruption Losses arising from disruption of business or
coverage in a manner that is transparent in its relationship
and system failures system failures
to, and consistent with, the actual likelihood and impact of
loss used in the overall determination of operational risk Execution, Delivery Losses from failed transaction processing or
capital; & Process process management, from relations with trade
Management counterparties and vendors
(e) the insurance is provided by a third party entity. In the case
of insurance through captives and affiliates, the exposure
TITLE IV
has to be laid off to an independent third party entity
that meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraph 2; OWN FUNDS REQUIREMENTS FOR MARKET RISK
CHAPTER 1
(f) the framework for recognising insurance is well reasoned
General Provisions
and documented.
Article 325
4. The methodology for recognising insurance shall capture Allowances for consolidated requirements
all the following elements through discounts or haircuts in the
amount of insurance recognition: 1. Subject to paragraph 2 and only for the purpose of calcu­
lating net positions and own funds requirements in accordance
with this Title on a consolidated basis, institutions may use
(a) the residual term of the insurance policy, where less than positions in one institution or undertaking to offset positions
one year; in another institution or undertaking.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/201
2. Institutions may apply paragraph 1 only subject to the competent authorities adopt an approach under which the like­
permission of the competent authorities, which shall be lihood of a particular convertible's being converted is taken into
granted if all of the following conditions are met: account or require an own funds requirement to cover any loss
which conversion might entail. Such approaches or own funds
requirements shall be notified to EBA. EBA shall monitor the
(a) there is a satisfactory allocation of own funds within the range of practices in this area and shall, in accordance with
group; Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, issue guidelines.
(b) the regulatory, legal or contractual framework in which the
3. All net positions, irrespective of their signs, shall be
institutions operate is such as to guarantee mutual financial
converted on a daily basis into the institution's reporting
support within the group.
currency at the prevailing spot exchange rate before their aggre­
gation.
3. Where there are undertakings located in third countries all
of the following conditions shall be met in addition to those in
Article 328
paragraph 2:
Interest rate futures and forwards
(a) such undertakings have been authorised in a third country 1. Interest-rate futures, forward-rate agreements (FRAs) and
and either satisfy the definition of a credit institution or are forward commitments to buy or sell debt instruments shall be
recognised third-country investment firms; treated as combinations of long and short positions. Thus a
long interest-rate futures position shall be treated as a
combination of a borrowing maturing on the delivery date of
(b) such undertakings comply, on an individual basis, with own the futures contract and a holding of an asset with maturity
funds requirements equivalent to those laid down in this date equal to that of the instrument or notional position
Regulation; underlying the futures contract in question. Similarly a sold
FRA will be treated as a long position with a maturity date
equal to the settlement date plus the contract period, and a
(c) no regulations exist in the third countries in question which short position with maturity equal to the settlement date.
might significantly affect the transfer of funds within the Both the borrowing and the asset holding shall be included in
group. the first category set out in Table 1 in Article 336 in order to
calculate the own funds requirement for specific risk for
interest-rate futures and FRAs. A forward commitment to buy
CHAPTER 2 a debt instrument shall be treated as a combination of a
borrowing maturing on the delivery date and a long (spot)
Own funds requirements for position risk
position in the debt instrument itself. The borrowing shall be
S e c t i o n 1 included in the first category set out in Table 1 in Article 336
for purposes of specific risk, and the debt instrument under
G e n e r a l p r o v i s i o n s a n d s p e c i f i c
whichever column is appropriate for it in the same table.
i n s t r u m e n t s
Article 326
2. For the purposes of this Article, 'long position' means a
Own funds requirements for position risk
position in which an institution has fixed the interest rate it will
receive at some time in the future, and 'short position' means a
The institution's own funds requirement for position risk shall
position in which it has fixed the interest rate it will pay at
be the sum of the own funds requirements for the general and
some time in the future.
specific risk of its positions in debt and equity instruments.
Securitisation positions in the trading book shall be treated as
debt instruments.
Article 329
Options and warrants
Article 327
1. Options and warrants on interest rates, debt instruments,
Netting
equities, equity indices, financial futures, swaps and foreign
1. The absolute value of the excess of an institution's long currencies shall be treated as if they were positions equal in
(short) positions over its short (long) positions in the same value to the amount of the underlying instrument to which
equity, debt and convertible issues and identical financial the option refers, multiplied by its delta for the purposes of
futures, options, warrants and covered warrants shall be its this Chapter. The latter positions may be netted off against any
net position in each of those different instruments. In calcu­ offsetting positions in the identical underlying securities or
lating the net position, positions in derivative instruments shall derivatives. The delta used shall be that of the exchange
be treated as laid down in Articles 328 to 330. Institutions' concerned. For OTC-options, or where delta is not available
holdings of their own debt instruments shall be disregarded in from the exchange concerned, the institution may calculate
calculating specific risk capital requirements under Article 336. delta itself using an appropriate model, subject to permission
by the competent authorities. Permission shall be granted if the
model appropriately estimates the rate of change of the option's
2. No netting shall be allowed between a convertible and an or warrant's value with respect to small changes in the market
offsetting position in the instrument underlying it, unless the price of the underlying.
L 176/202 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. Institutions shall adequately reflect other risks, apart from 2. Institutions which do not use models under paragraph 1
the delta risk, associated with options in the own funds require­ may, treat as fully offsetting any positions in derivative
ments. instruments covered in Articles 328 to 330 which meet the
following conditions at least:
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards (a) the positions are of the same value and denominated in the
defining a range of methods to reflect in the own funds same currency;
requirements other risks, apart from delta risk, referred to in
paragraph 2 in a manner proportionate to the scale and
complexity of institutions' activities in options and warrants.
(b) the reference rate (for floating-rate positions) or coupon (for
fixed-rate positions) is closely matched;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2013. (c) the next interest-fixing date or, for fixed coupon positions,
residual maturity corresponds with the following limits:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory (i) less than one month hence: same day;
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. (ii) between one month and one year hence: within seven
days;
4. Before the entry into force of the technical standards
(iii) over one year hence: within 30 days.
referred to in paragraph 3, competent authorities may
continue to apply the existing national treatments, where the
competent authorities have applied those treatments before
Article 332
31 December 2013.
Credit Derivatives
1. When calculating the own funds requirement for general
Article 330 and specific risk of the party who assumes the credit risk (the
'protection seller'), unless specified differently, the notional
Swaps
amount of the credit derivative contract shall be used. Notwith­
standing the first sentence, the institution may elect to replace
Swaps shall be treated for interest-rate risk purposes on the
the notional value by the notional value plus the net market
same basis as on-balance-sheet instruments. Thus, an interest-
value change of the credit derivative since trade inception, a net
rate swap under which an institution receives floating-rate
downward change from the protection seller's perspective
interest and pays fixed-rate interest shall be treated as equivalent
carrying a negative sign. For the purpose of calculating the
to a long position in a floating-rate instrument of maturity
specific risk charge, other than for total return swaps, the
equivalent to the period until the next interest fixing and a
maturity of the credit derivative contract, rather than the
short position in a fixed-rate instrument with the same
maturity of the obligation, shall apply. Positions are determined
maturity as the swap itself.
as follows:
Article 331 (a) a total return swap creates a long position in the general
risk of the reference obligation and a short position in the
Interest rate risk on derivative instruments
general risk of a government bond with a maturity
1. Institutions which mark to market and manage the equivalent to the period until the next interest fixing and
interest-rate risk on the derivative instruments covered in which is assigned a 0 % risk weight under Title II, Chapter
Articles 328 to 330 on a discounted-cash-flow basis may, 2. It also creates a long position in the specific risk of the
subject to permission by the competent authorities, use sensi­ reference obligation;
tivity models to calculate the positions referred to in those
Articles and may use them for any bond which is amortised
over its residual life rather than via one final repayment of (b) a credit default swap does not create a position for general
principal. Permission shall be granted if these models generate risk. For the purposes of specific risk, the institution shall
positions which have the same sensitivity to interest-rate record a synthetic long position in an obligation of the
changes as the underlying cash flows. This sensitivity shall be reference entity, unless the derivative is rated externally
assessed with reference to independent movements in sample and meets the conditions for a qualifying debt item, in
rates across the yield curve, with at least one sensitivity point in which case a long position in the derivative is recorded. If
each of the maturity bands set out in Table 2 in Article 339. premium or interest payments are due under the product,
The positions shall be included in the calculation of own funds these cash flows shall be represented as notional positions
requirements for general risk of debt instruments. in government bonds;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/203
(c) a single name credit linked note creates a long position in inception, a net downward change from the protection seller's
the general risk of the note itself, as an interest rate product. perspective carrying a negative sign. If at a given moment there
For the purpose of specific risk, a synthetic long position is is a call option in combination with a step-up, such moment is
created in an obligation of the reference entity. An treated as the maturity of the protection.
additional long position is created in the issuer of the
note. Where the credit linked note has an external rating
and meets the conditions for a qualifying debt item, a single
3. Credit derivatives in accordance with Article 338(1) or (3)
long position with the specific risk of the note need only be
shall be included only in the determination of the specific risk
recorded;
own funds requirement in accordance with Article 338(4).
Article 333
(d) in addition to a long position in the specific risk of the
issuer of the note, a multiple name credit linked note Securities sold under a repurchase agreement or lent
providing proportional protection creates a position in
The transferor of securities or guaranteed rights relating to title
each reference entity, with the total notional amount of
to securities in a repurchase agreement and the lender of
the contract assigned across the positions according to the
securities in a securities lending shall include these securities
proportion of the total notional amount that each exposure
in the calculation of its own funds requirement under this
to a reference entity represents. Where more than one
Chapter provided that such securities are trading book posi­
obligation of a reference entity can be selected, the
tions.
obligation with the highest risk weighting determines the
specific risk;
S e c t i o n 2
D e b t i n s t r u m e n t s
(e) a first-asset-to-default credit derivative creates a position for Article 334
the notional amount in an obligation of each reference
entity. If the size of the maximum credit event payment Net positions in debt instruments
is lower than the own funds requirement under the
Net positions shall be classified according to the currency in
method in the first sentence of this point, the maximum
which they are denominated and shall calculate the own funds
payment amount may be taken as the own funds
requirement for general and specific risk in each individual
requirement for specific risk.
currency separately.
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
A -n-th-asset-to-default credit derivative creates a position for
S p e c i f i c r i s k
the notional amount in an obligation of each reference entity
less the n-1 reference entities with the lowest specific risk own Article 335
funds requirement. If the size of the maximum credit event
payment is lower than the own funds requirement under the Cap on the own funds requirement for a net position
method in the first sentence of this point, this amount may be
The institution may cap the own funds requirement for specific
taken as the own funds requirement for specific risk.
risk of a net position in a debt instrument at the maximum
possible default-risk related loss. For a short position, that limit
may be calculated as a change in value due to the instrument
or, where relevant, the underlying names immediately becoming
default risk-free.
Where an n-th-to-default credit derivative is externally rated, the
protection seller shall calculate the specific risk own funds
requirement using the rating of the derivative and apply the
respective securitisation risk weights as applicable. Article 336
Own funds requirement for non-securitisation debt
instruments
1. The institution shall assign its net positions in the trading
2. For the party who transfers credit risk (the protection book in instruments that are not securitisation positions as
buyer), the positions are determined as the mirror principle of calculated in accordance with Article 327 to the appropriate
the protection seller, with the exception of a credit linked note categories in Table 1 on the basis of their issuer or obligor,
(which entails no short position in the issuer). When calculating external or internal credit assessment, and residual maturity, and
the own funds requirement for the 'protection buyer', the then multiply them by the weightings shown in that table. It
notional amount of the credit derivative contract shall be shall sum its weighted positions resulting from the application
used. Notwithstanding the first sentence, the institution may of this Article regardless of whether they are long or short in
elect to replace the notional value by the notional value plus order to calculate its own funds requirement against specific
the net market value change of the credit derivative since trade risk.
L 176/204 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Table 1 provided that the exchange is recognised by the
competent authorities of the relevant Member State;
Categories Specific risk own funds requirement
Debt securities which would 0 %
(b) long and short positions in assets issued by institutions
receive a 0 % risk weight under
subject to the own funds requirements set out in this Regu­
the Standardised Approach for
credit risk. lation which are considered by the institution concerned to
be sufficiently liquid and whose investment quality is,
Debt securities which would 0,25 % (residual term to final according to the institution's own discretion, at least
receive a 20 % or 50 % risk maturity six months or less) equivalent to that of the assets referred to under Table 1
weight under the Standardised 1,00 % (residual term to final second row;
Approach for credit risk and maturity greater than six months
other qualifying items as defined and up to and including 24
in paragraph 4. months)
1,60 % (residual term to maturity (c) securities issued by institutions that are deemed to be of
exceeding 24 months) equivalent, or higher, credit quality than those associated
with credit quality step 2 under the Standardised
Debt securities which would 8,00 % Approach for credit risk of exposures to institutions and
receive a 100 % risk weight that are subject to supervisory and regulatory arrangements
under the Standardised Approach
comparable to those under this Regulation and Directive
for credit risk.
2013/36/EU.
Debt which would receive a 150 % 12,00 %
risk weight under the Standardised
Approach for credit risk. Institutions that make use of point (a) or (b) shall have a docu­
mented methodology in place to assess whether assets meet the
requirements in those points and shall notify this methodology
to the competent authorities.
2. For institutions which apply the IRB Approach to the
exposure class of which the issuer of the debt instrument
forms part, to qualify for a risk weight under the Standardised
Approach for credit risk as referred to in paragraph 1, the issuer Article 337
of the exposure shall have an internal rating with a PD
Own funds requirement for securitisation instruments
equivalent to or lower than that associated with the appropriate
credit quality step under the Standardised Approach. 1. For instruments in the trading book that are securitisation
positions, the institution shall weight with the following its net
positions as calculated in accordance with Article 327(1):
3. Institutions may calculate the specific risk requirements
for any bonds that qualify for a 10 % risk weight in accordance
(a) for securitisation positions that would be subject to the
with the treatment set out in Article 129(4), (5) and (6) as half
Standardised Approach for credit risk in the same institu­
of the applicable specific risk own funds requirement for the
tion's non-trading book, 8 % of the risk weight under the
second category in Table 1.
Standardised Approach as set out in Title II, Chapter 5,
Section 3;
4. Other qualifying items are:
(b) for securitisation positions that would be subject to the
Internal Ratings Based Approach in the same institution's
non-trading book, 8 % of the risk weight under the Internal
(a) long and short positions in assets for which a credit Ratings Based Approach as set out in Title II, Chapter 5,
assessment by a nominated ECAI is not available and Section 3.
which meet all of the following conditions:
2. The Supervisory Formula Method set out in Article 262
may be used where the institution can produce estimates of PD,
(i) they are considered by the institution concerned to be
and where applicable exposure value and LGD as inputs into
sufficiently liquid;
the Supervisory Formula Method in accordance with the
requirements for the estimation of those parameters under the
Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with Title II,
Chapter 3.
(ii) their investment quality is, according to the institution's
own discretion, at least equivalent to that of the assets
referred to under Table 1 second row;
An institution other than an originator institution that could
apply it for the same securitisation position in its non-trading
book may only use that method subject to permission by the
(iii) they are listed on at least one regulated market in a competent authorities, which shall be granted where the insti­
Member State or on a stock exchange in a third country tution fulfils the condition in the first subparagraph.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/205
Estimates of PD and LGD as inputs to the Supervisory Formula (a) the positions are neither re-securitisation positions, nor
Method may alternatively also be determined based on estimates options on a securitisation tranche, nor any other
that are derived from an IRC approach of an institution that has derivatives of securitisation exposures that do not provide
been granted permission to use an internal model for specific a pro-rata share in the proceeds of a securitisation tranche;
risk of debt instruments. The latter alternative may be used only
subject to permission by the competent authorities, which shall
be granted if those estimates meet the quantitative requirements
(b) all reference instruments are either of the following:
for the Internal Ratings Based Approach set out in Title II,
Chapter 3.
(i) single-name instruments, including single-name credit
derivatives, for which a liquid two-way market exists;
In accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010, EBA shall issue guidelines on the use of
estimates of PD and LGD as inputs when those estimates are
(ii) commonly-traded indices based on those reference
based on an IRC approach.
entities.
3. For securitisation positions that are subject to an A two-way market is deemed to exist where there are inde­
additional risk weight in accordance with Article 407, 8 % of pendent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price
the total risk weight shall be applied. reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide
competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within
one day and settled at such price within a relatively short time
conforming to trade custom.
Except for securitisation positions treated in accordance with
Article 338(4), the institution shall sum its weighted positions
resulting from the application of this Article (regardless of
whether they are long or short) in order to calculate its own 2. Positions which reference any of the following shall not
funds requirement against specific risk. be part of the correlation trading portfolio:
(a) an underlying that is capable of being assigned to the
4. By way of derogation from the second subparagraph of
exposure class 'retail exposures' or to the exposure class
paragraph 3, for a transitional period ending 31 December
'exposures' secured by mortgages on immovable property'
2014, the institution shall sum separately its weighted net
under the Standardised Approach for credit risk in an insti­
long positions and its weighted net short positions. The larger
tution's non-trading book;
of those sums shall constitute the specific risk own funds
requirement. The institution shall, however, quarterly report to
the competent authority of the home Member State the total
sum of its weighted net long and net short positions, broken (b) a claim on a special purpose entity, collateralised, directly or
down by types of underlying assets. indirectly, by a position that would itself not be eligible for
inclusion in the correlation trading portfolio in accordance
with paragraph 1 and this paragraph.
5. Where an originator institution of a traditional securiti­
sation does not meet the conditions for significant risk transfer
3. An institution may include in the correlation trading
in Article 243, it shall include in the calculation of the own
portfolio positions which are neither securitisation positions
funds requirement under this Article the securitised exposures
nor n-th-to-default credit derivatives but which hedge other
instead of its securitisation positions from this securitisation.
positions of that portfolio, provided that a liquid two-way
market as described in the last subparagraph of paragraph 1
exists for the instrument or its underlyings.
Where an originator institution of a synthetic securitisation does
not meet the conditions for significant risk transfer in
Article 244, it shall include in the calculation of the own 4. An institution shall determine the larger of the following
funds requirement under this Article the securitised exposures amounts as the specific risk own funds requirement for the
from this securitisation, but not any credit protection obtained correlation trading portfolio:
for the securitised portfolio.
(a) the total specific risk own funds requirement that would
Article 338 apply just to the net long positions of the correlation
trading portfolio;
Own funds requirement for the correlation trading
portfolio
1. The correlation trading portfolio shall consist of securiti­ (b) the total specific risk own funds requirement that would
sation positions and n-th-to-default credit derivatives that meet apply just to the net short positions of the correlation
all of the following criteria: trading portfolio.
L 176/206 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
S u b - S e c t i o n 2 2. It shall then multiply each of them by the weighing for the
maturity band in question in column 4 in Table 2.
G e n e r a l r i s k
Article 339
3. The institution shall then work out the sum of the
Maturity-based calculation of general risk
weighted long positions and the sum of the weighted short
1. In order to calculate own funds requirements against positions in each maturity band. The amount of the former
general risk all positions shall be weighted according to which are matched by the latter in a given maturity band
maturity as explained in paragraph 2 in order to compute the shall be the matched weighted position in that band, while
amount of own funds required against them. This requirement the residual long or short position shall be the unmatched
shall be reduced when a weighted position is held alongside an weighted position for the same band. The total of the
opposite weighted position within the same maturity band. A matched weighted positions in all bands shall then be calcu­
reduction in the requirement shall also be made when the lated.
opposite weighted positions fall into different maturity bands,
with the size of this reduction depending both on whether the
two positions fall into the same zone, or not, and on the 4. The institution shall compute the totals of the unmatched
particular zones they fall into. weighted long positions for the bands included in each of the
zones in Table 2 in order to derive the unmatched weighted
long position for each zone. Similarly, the sum of the
unmatched weighted short positions for each band in a
2. The institution shall assign its net positions to the appro­ particular zone shall be summed to compute the unmatched
priate maturity bands in column 2 or 3, as appropriate, in Table weighted short position for that zone. That part of the
2 in paragraph 4. It shall do so on the basis of residual maturity unmatched weighted long position for a given zone that is
in the case of fixed-rate instruments and on the basis of the matched by the unmatched weighted short position for the
period until the interest rate is next set in the case of same zone shall be the matched weighted position for that
instruments on which the interest rate is variable before final zone. That part of the unmatched weighted long or
maturity. It shall also distinguish between debt instruments with unmatched weighted short position for a zone that cannot be
a coupon of 3 % or more and those with a coupon of less than thus matched shall be the unmatched weighted position for that
3 % and thus allocate them to column 2 or column 3 in Table zone.
Table 2
Maturity band
Assumed interest
Zone Weighting (in %)
rate change (in %)
Coupon of 3 % or more Coupon of less than 3 %
One 0 ≤ 1 month 0 ≤ 1 month 0,00 —
> 1 ≤ 3 months > 1 ≤ 3 months 0,20 1,00
> 3 ≤ 6 months > 3 ≤ 6 months 0,40 1,00
> 6 ≤ 12 months > 6 ≤ 12 months 0,70 1,00
Two > 1 ≤ 2 years > 1,0 ≤ 1,9 years 1,25 0,90
> 2 ≤ 3 years > 1,9 ≤ 2,8 years 1,75 0,80
> 3 ≤ 4 years > 2,8 ≤ 3,6 years 2,25 0,75
Three > 4 ≤ 5 years > 3,6 ≤ 4,3 years 2,75 0,75
> 5 ≤ 7 years > 4,3 ≤ 5,7 years 3,25 0,70
> 7 ≤ 10 years > 5,7 ≤ 7,3 years 3,75 0,65
> 10 ≤ 15 years > 7,3 ≤ 9,3 years 4,50 0,60
> 15 ≤ 20 years > 9,3 ≤ 10,6 years 5,25 0,60
> 20 years > 10,6 ≤ 12,0 years 6,00 0,60
> 12,0 ≤ 20,0 years 8,00 0,60
> 20 years 12,50 0,60
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/207
5. The amount of the unmatched weighted long or short each fixed-rate debt instrument and hence calculate its yield to
position in zone one which is matched by the unmatched maturity, which is implied discount rate for that instrument. In
weighted short or long position in zone two shall then be the case of floating-rate instruments, the institution shall take
the matched weighted position between zones one and two. the market value of each instrument and hence calculate its
The same calculation shall then be undertaken with regard to yield on the assumption that the principal is due when the
that part of the unmatched weighted position in zone two interest rate can next be changed.
which is left over and the unmatched weighted position in
zone three in order to calculate the matched weighted
position between zones two and three. 3. The institution shall then calculate the modified duration
of each debt instrument on the basis of the following formula:
6. The institution may reverse the order in paragraph 5 so as D
modified duration
to calculate the matched weighted position between zones two ¼1 R
and three before calculating that position between zones one þ
where:
and two.
7. The remainder of the unmatched weighted position in D = duration calculated according to the following formula:
zone one shall then be matched with what remains of that
for zone three after the latter's matching with zone two in M t · C t
o or nd ee r
a
nt do td he rr ei ev .e the matched weighted position between zones
D Xt ¼1
ð1
þ
R
Þ
t
¼ M C
t
8. Residual positions, following the three separate matching
Xt ¼1
ð1
þ
R
Þ
t
calculations in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 shall be summed. where:
9. The institution's own funds requirement shall be R = yield to maturity;
calculated as the sum of:
(a) 10 % of the sum of the matched weighted positions in all
C
t
= cash payment in time t;
maturity bands;
M = total maturity.
(b) 40 % of the matched weighted position in zone one;
Correction shall be made to the calculation of the modified
(c) 30 % of the matched weighted position in zone two;
duration for debt instruments which are subject to prepayment
risk. EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010, issue guidelines about how to apply such
(d) 30 % of the matched weighted position in zone three;
corrections.
(e) 40 % of the matched weighted position between zones one
and two and between zones two and three; 4. The institution shall then allocate each debt instrument to
the appropriate zone in Table 3. It shall do so on the basis of
the modified duration of each instrument.
(f) 150 % of the matched weighted position between zones one
and three;
Table 3
(g) 100 % of the residual unmatched weighted positions.
Modified duration Assumed interest
Zone
(in years) (change in %)
Article 340 One > 0 ≤ 1,0 1,0
Duration-based calculation of general risk
Two > 1,0 ≤ 3,6 0,85
1. Institutions may use an approach for calculating the own
Three > 3,6 0,7
funds requirement for the general risk on debt instruments
which reflects duration, instead of the approach set out in
Article 339, provided that the institution does so on a
consistent basis. 5. The institution shall then calculate the duration-weighted
position for each instrument by multiplying its market price by
its modified duration and by the assumed interest-rate change
2. Under the duration-based approach referred to in for an instrument with that particular modified duration (see
paragraph 1, the institution shall take the market value of column 3 in Table 3).
L 176/208 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
6. The institution shall calculate its duration-weighted long Article 343
and its duration-weighted short positions within each zone. The
General risk of equity instruments
amount of the former which are matched by the latter within
each zone shall be the matched duration-weighted position for The own funds requirement against general risk shall be the
that zone. institution's overall net position multiplied by 8 %.
The institution shall then calculate the unmatched duration-
Article 344
weighted positions for each zone. It shall then follow the
procedures laid down for unmatched weighted positions in Stock indices
Article 339(5) to (8).
1. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
listing the stock indices for which the treatments set out in the
7. The institution's own funds requirement shall then be second sentence of paragraph 4 is available.
calculated as the sum of the following:
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
(a) 2 % of the matched duration-weighted position for each
to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
zone;
(b) 40 % of the matched duration-weighted positions between Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
zones one and two and between zones two and three; menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(c) 150 % of the matched duration-weighted position between
zones one and three;
2. Before the entry into force of the technical standards
(d) 100 % of the residual unmatched duration-weighted posi­ referred to in paragraph 1, institutions may continue to apply
tions. the treatment set out in paragraphs 3 and 4, where the
competent authorities have applied that treatment before
1 January 2014.
S e c t i o n 3
E q u i t i e s
3. Stock-index futures, the delta-weighted equivalents of
Article 341 options in stock-index futures and stock indices collectively
referred to hereafter as 'stock-index futures', may be broken
Net positions in equity instruments
down into positions in each of their constituent equities.
1. The institution shall separately sum all its net long These positions may be treated as underlying positions in the
positions and all its net short positions in accordance with equities in question, and may, be netted against opposite
Article 327. The sum of the absolute values of the two positions in the underlying equities themselves. Institutions
figures shall be its overall gross position. shall notify the competent authority of the use they make of
that treatment.
2. The institution shall calculate, separately for each market,
the difference between the sum of the net long and the net 4. Where a stock-index future is not broken down into its
short positions. The sum of the absolute values of those underlying positions, it shall be treated as if it were an indi­
differences shall be its overall net position. vidual equity. However, the specific risk on this individual
equity can be ignored if the stock-index future in question is
exchange traded and represents a relevant appropriately diver­
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards
sified index.
defining the term market referred to in paragraph 2.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to S e c t i o n 4
the Commission by 31 January 2014.
U n d e r w r i t i n g
Article 345
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in Reduction of net positions
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. 1. In the case of the underwriting of debt and equity instru­
ments, an institution may use the following procedure in calcu­
lating its own funds requirements. The institution shall first
Article 342 calculate the net positions by deducting the underwriting
positions which are subscribed or sub-underwritten by third
Specific risk of equity instruments
parties on the basis of formal agreements. The institution
The institution shall multiply its overall gross position by 8 % in shall then reduce the net positions by the reduction factors in
order to calculate its own funds requirement against specific Table 4 and calculate its own funds requirements using the
risk. reduced underwriting positions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/209
Table 4 materially deviate from the price movements of the cash
position. To the extent that the transaction transfers risk, an
working day 0: 100 % 80 % specific risk offset will be applied to the side of the trans­
action with the higher own funds requirement, while the
working day 1: 90 % specific risk requirements on the other side shall be zero.
working days 2 to 3: 75 %
5. Partial allowance shall be given, absent the situations in
working day 4: 50 % paragraphs 3 and 4, in the following situations:
working day 5: 25 %
(a) the position falls under paragraph 3(b) but there is an asset
after working day 5: 0 %.
mismatch between the reference obligation and the
underlying exposure. However, the positions meet the
following requirements:
'Working day zero' shall be the working day on which the
institution becomes unconditionally committed to accepting a
known quantity of securities at an agreed price. (i) the reference obligation ranks pari passu with or is
junior to the underlying obligation;
2. The institutions shall notify to the competent authorities
(ii) the underlying obligation and reference obligation share
the use they make of paragraph 1.
the same obligor and have legally enforceable cross-
default or cross-acceleration clauses;
S e c t i o n 5
S p e c i f i c r i s k o w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s f o r (b) the position falls under paragraph 3(a) or paragraph 4 but
p o s i t i o n s h e d g e d b y c r e d i t d e r i v a t i v e s there is a currency or maturity mismatch between the credit
protection and the underlying asset. Such currency
Article 346
mismatch shall be included in the own funds requirement
Allowance for hedges by credit derivatives for foreign exchange risk;
1. An allowance shall be given for hedges provided by credit
derivatives, in accordance with the principles set out in para­ (c) the position falls under paragraph 4 but there is an asset
graphs 2 to 6. mismatch between the cash position and the credit
derivative. However, the underlying asset is included in
the (deliverable) obligations in the credit derivative docu­
2. Institutions shall treat the position in the credit derivative mentation.
as one 'leg' and the hedged position that has the same nominal,
or, where applicable, notional amount, as the other 'leg'.
In order to give partial allowance, rather than adding the
specific risk own funds requirements for each side of the trans­
3. Full allowance shall be given when the values of the two action, only the higher of the two own funds requirements shall
legs always move in the opposite direction and broadly to the apply.
same extent. This will be the case in the following situations:
6. In all situations not falling under paragraphs 3 to 5, an
(a) the two legs consist of completely identical instruments; own funds requirement for specific risk shall be calculated for
both sides of the positions separately.
(b) a long cash position is hedged by a total rate of return swap
(or vice versa) and there is an exact match between the Article 347
reference obligation and the underlying exposure (i.e., the
Allowance for hedges by first and nth-to default credit
cash position). The maturity of the swap itself may be
derivatives
different from that of the underlying exposure.
In the case of first-to-default credit derivatives and nth-to-
default credit derivatives, the following treatment applies for
In these situations, a specific risk own funds requirement shall the allowance to be given in accordance with Article 346:
not be applied to either side of the position.
(a) where an institution obtains credit protection for a number
4. An 80 % offset will be applied when the values of the two of reference entities underlying a credit derivative under the
legs always move in the opposite direction and where there is terms that the first default among the assets shall trigger
an exact match in terms of the reference obligation, the payment and that this credit event shall terminate the
maturity of both the reference obligation and the credit contract, the institution may offset specific risk for the
derivative, and the currency of the underlying exposure. In reference entity to which the lowest specific risk percentage
addition, key features of the credit derivative contract shall charge among the underlying reference entities applies
not cause the price movement of the credit derivative to according to Table 1 in Article 336;
L 176/210 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) where the nth default among the exposures triggers (b) the business of the CIU shall be reported in half-yearly and
payment under the credit protection, the protection buyer annual reports to enable an assessment to be made of the
may only offset specific risk if protection has also been assets and liabilities, income and operations over the
obtained for defaults 1 to n-1 or when n-1 defaults have reporting period;
already occurred. In such cases, the methodology set out in
point (a) for first-to-default credit derivatives shall be
followed appropriately amended for nth-to-default products.
(c) the shares or units of the CIU are redeemable in cash, out of
the undertaking's assets, on a daily basis at the request of
the unit holder;
S e c t i o n 6
O w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s f o r C I U s
Article 348 (d) investments in the CIU shall be segregated from the assets
of the CIU manager;
Own funds requirements for CIUs
1. Without prejudice to other provisions in this Section,
positions in CIUs shall be subject to an own funds requirement
for position risk, comprising specific and general risk, of 32 %. (e) there shall be adequate risk assessment of the CIU, by the
Without prejudice to Article 353 taken together with the investing institution;
amended gold treatment set out in Article 352(4) and
Article 367(2)(b) positions in CIUs shall be subject to an own
funds requirement for position risk, comprising specific and
general risk, and foreign-exchange risk of 40 %. (f) CIUs shall be managed by persons supervised in accordance
with Directive 2009/65/EC or equivalent legislation.
2. Unless noted otherwise in Article 350, no netting is
permitted between the underlying investments of a CIU and Article 350
other positions held by the institution.
Specific methods for CIUs
1. Where the institution is aware of the underlying
investments of the CIU on a daily basis, the institution may
Article 349 look through to those underlying investments in order to
calculate the own funds requirements for position risk,
General criteria for CIUs
comprising specific and general risk. Under such an approach,
CIUs shall be eligible for the approach set out in Article 350, positions in CIUs shall be treated as positions in the underlying
where all the following conditions are met: investments of the CIU. Netting shall be permitted between
positions in the underlying investments of the CIU and other
positions held by the institution, provided that the institution
holds a sufficient quantity of shares or units to allow for
(a) the CIU's prospectus or equivalent document shall include redemption/creation in exchange for the underlying invest­
all of the following: ments.
(i) the categories of assets the CIU is authorised to invest 2. Institutions may calculate the own funds requirements for
in; position risk, comprising specific and general risk, for positions
in CIUs by assuming positions representing those necessary to
replicate the composition and performance of the externally
generated index or fixed basket of equities or debt securities
(ii) where investment limits apply, the relative limits and referred to in point (a), subject to the following conditions:
the methodologies to calculate them;
(a) the purpose of the CIU's mandate is to replicate the
(iii) where leverage is allowed, the maximum level of composition and performance of an externally generated
leverage; index or fixed basket of equities or debt securities;
(iv) where concluding OTC financial derivatives transactions (b) a minimum correlation coefficient between daily returns on
or repurchase transactions or securities borrowing or the CIU and the index or basket of equities or debt
lending is allowed, a policy to limit counterparty risk securities it tracks of 0,9 can be clearly established over a
arising from these transactions; minimum period of six months.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/211
3. Where the institution is not aware of the underlying funds requirement for foreign exchange risk shall be the sum
investments of the CIU on a daily basis, the institution may of its overall net foreign-exchange position and its net gold
calculate the own funds requirements for position risk, position in the reporting currency, multiplied by 8 %.
comprising specific and general risk, subject to the following
conditions:
Article 352
Calculation of the overall net foreign exchange position
(a) it will be assumed that the CIU first invests to the maximum
extent allowed under its mandate in the asset classes 1. The institution's net open position in each currency
attracting the highest own funds requirement for specific (including the reporting currency) and in gold shall be
and general risk separately, and then continues making calculated as the sum of the following elements (positive or
investments in descending order until the maximum total negative):
investment limit is reached. The position in the CIU will be
treated as a direct holding in the assumed position;
(a) the net spot position (i.e. all asset items less all liability
items, including accrued interest, in the currency in
question or, for gold, the net spot position in gold);
(b) institutions shall take account of the maximum indirect
exposure that they could achieve by taking leveraged
positions through the CIU when calculating their own
(b) the net forward position, which are all amounts to be
funds requirement for specific and general risk separately,
received less all amounts to be paid under forward
by proportionally increasing the position in the CIU up to
exchange and gold transactions, including currency and
the maximum exposure to the underlying investment items
gold futures and the principal on currency swaps not
resulting from the mandate;
included in the spot position;
(c) if the own funds requirement for specific and general risk (c) irrevocable guarantees and similar instruments that are
together in accordance with this paragraph exceed that set certain to be called and likely to be irrecoverable;
out in Article 348(1) the own funds requirement shall be
capped at that level.
(d) the net delta, or delta-based, equivalent of the total book of
foreign-currency and gold options;
4. Institutions may rely on the following third parties to
calculate and report own funds requirements for position risk
for positions in CIUs falling under paragraphs 1 to 4, in (e) the market value of other options.
accordance with the methods set out in this Chapter:
The delta used for purposes of point (d) shall be that of the
exchange concerned. For OTC options, or where delta is not
(a) the depository of the CIU provided that the CIU exclusively
available from the exchange concerned, the institution may
invests in securities and deposits all securities at this
calculate delta itself using an appropriate model, subject to
depository;
permission by the competent authorities. Permission shall be
granted if the model appropriately estimates the rate of
change of the option's or warrant's value with respect to
(b) for other CIUs, the CIU management company, provided small changes in the market price of the underlying.
that the CIU management company meets the criteria set
out in Article 132(3)(a).
The institution may include net future income/expenses not yet
accrued but already fully hedged if it does so consistently.
The correctness of the calculation shall be confirmed by an
external auditor.
The institution may break down net positions in composite
currencies into the component currencies according to the
quotas in force.
CHAPTER 3
Own funds requirements for foreign-exchange risk
2. Any positions which an institution has deliberately taken
Article 351 in order to hedge against the adverse effect of the exchange rate
on its ratios in accordance with Article 92(1) may, subject to
De minimis and weighting for foreign exchange risk
permission by the competent authorities, be excluded from the
If the sum of an institution's overall net foreign-exchange calculation of net open currency positions. Such positions shall
position and its net gold position, calculated in accordance be of a non-trading or structural nature and any variation of the
with the procedure set out in Article 352, including for any terms of their exclusion, subject to separate permission by the
foreign exchange and gold positions for which own funds competent authorities. The same treatment subject to the same
requirements are calculated using an internal model, exceeds conditions may be applied to positions which an institution has
2 % of its total own funds, the institution shall calculate an which relate to items that are already deducted in the calcu­
own funds requirement for foreign exchange risk. The own lation of own funds.
L 176/212 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. An institution may use the net present value when calcu­ up to the maximum extent allowed under the CIU's mandate in
lating the net open position in each currency and in gold foreign exchange and institutions shall, for trading book posi­
provided that the institution applies this approach consistently. tions, take account of the maximum indirect exposure that they
could achieve by taking leveraged positions through the CIU
when calculating their own funds requirement for foreign
4. Net short and long positions in each currency other than
exchange risk. This shall be done by proportionally increasing
the reporting currency and the net long or short position in
the position in the CIU up to the maximum exposure to the
gold shall be converted at spot rates into the reporting currency.
underlying investment items resulting from the investment
They shall then be summed separately to form the total of the
mandate. The assumed position of the CIU in foreign
net short positions and the total of the net long positions
exchange shall be treated as a separate currency according to
respectively. The higher of these two totals shall be the institu­
the treatment of investments in gold, subject to the addition of
tion's overall net foreign-exchange position.
the total long position to the total long open foreign exchange
position and the total short position to the total short open
5. Institutions shall adequately reflect other risks associated foreign exchange position where the direction of the CIU's
with options, apart from the delta risk, in the own funds investment is available. There shall be no netting allowed
requirements. between such positions prior to the calculation.
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards
defining a range of methods to reflect in the own funds Article 354
requirements other risks, apart from delta risk, in a manner
proportionate to the scale and complexity of institutions' Closely correlated currencies
activities in options.
1. Institutions may provide lower own funds requirements
against positions in relevant closely correlated currencies. A pair
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to of currencies is deemed to be closely correlated only if the
the Commission by 31 December 2013. likelihood of a loss — calculated on the basis of daily
exchange-rate data for the preceding three or five years —
occurring on equal and opposite positions in such currencies
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory over the following 10 working days, which is 4 % or less of the
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in value of the matched position in question (valued in terms of
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) the reporting currency) has a probability of at least 99 %, when
No 1093/2010. an observation period of three years is used, and 95 %, when an
observation period of five years is used. The own-funds
requirement on the matched position in two closely correlated
Before the entry into force of the technical standards referred to
currencies shall be 4 % multiplied by the value of the matched
in the first subparagraph, competent authorities may continue
position.
to apply the existing national treatments, where the competent
authorities have applied those treatments before 31 December
2013.
2. In calculating the requirements of this Chapter, insti­
Article 353 tutions may disregard positions in currencies, which are
subject to a legally binding intergovernmental agreement to
Foreign exchange risk of CIUs
limit its variation relative to other currencies covered by the
1. For the purposes of Article 352, in respect of CIUs the same agreement. Institutions shall calculate their matched
actual foreign exchange positions of the CIU shall be taken into positions in such currencies and subject them to an own
account. funds requirement no lower than half of the maximum
permissible variation laid down in the intergovernmental
agreement in question in respect of the currencies concerned.
2. Institutions may rely on the following third parties'
reporting of the foreign exchange positions in the CIU:
3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
(a) the depository institution of the CIU provided that the CIU
listing the currencies for which the treatment set out in
exclusively invests in securities and deposits all securities at
paragraph 1 is available.
this depository institution;
(b) for other CIUs, the CIU management company, provided
that the CIU management company meets the criteria set EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
out in point (a) of Article 132(3). to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
The correctness of the calculation shall be confirmed by an
external auditor.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
3. Where an institution is not aware of the foreign exchange in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
positions in a CIU, it shall be assumed that the CIU is invested No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/213
4. The own funds requirement on the matched positions in Article 357
currencies of Member States participating in the second stage of
Positions in commodities
the economic and monetary union may be calculated as 1,6 %
of the value of such matched positions. 1. Each position in commodities or commodity derivatives
shall be expressed in terms of the standard unit of
measurement. The spot price in each commodity shall be
5. Only the unmatched positions in currencies referred to in expressed in the reporting currency.
this Article shall be incorporated into the overall net open
position in accordance with Article 352(4).
2. Positions in gold or gold derivatives shall be considered as
6. Where daily exchange-rate data for the preceding three or being subject to foreign-exchange risk and treated in accordance
five years - occurring on equal and opposite positions in a pair with Chapter 3 or 5, as appropriate, for the purpose of calcu­
of currencies over the following 10 working days show that lating commodities risk.
these two currencies are perfectly positively correlated and the
institution always can face a zero bid/ask spread on the
respective trades, the institution can, upon explicit permission
by its competent authority, apply an own funds requirement of 3. For the purpose of Article 360(1), the excess of an insti­
0 % until the end of 2017. tution's long positions over its short positions, or vice versa, in
the same commodity and identical commodity futures, options
and warrants shall be its net position in each commodity.
Derivative instruments shall be treated, as laid down in
CHAPTER 4
Article 358, as positions in the underlying commodity.
Own funds requirements for commodities risk
Article 355
4. For the purposes of calculating a position in a commodity,
Choice of method for commodities risk
the following positions shall be treated as positions in the same
Subject to Articles 356 to 358, institutions shall calculate the commodity:
own funds requirement for commodities risk with one of the
methods set out in Article 359, 360 or 361.
(a) positions in different sub-categories of commodities in cases
Article 356 where the sub-categories are deliverable against each other;
Ancillary commodities business
1. Institutions with ancillary agricultural commodities
(b) positions in similar commodities if they are close substitutes
business may determine the own funds requirements for their
and where a minimum correlation of 0,9 between price
physical commodity stock at the end of each year for the
movements can be clearly established over a minimum
following year where all of the following conditions are met:
period of one year.
(a) at any time of the year it holds own funds for this risk
which are not lower than the average own funds
Article 358
requirement for that risk estimated on a conservative basis
for the coming year; Particular instruments
1. Commodity futures and forward commitments to buy or
sell individual commodities shall be incorporated in the
(b) it estimates on a conservative basis the expected volatility
measurement system as notional amounts in terms of the
for the figure calculated under point (a);
standard unit of measurement and assigned a maturity with
reference to expiry date.
(c) its average own funds requirement for this risk does not
exceed 5 % of its own funds or EUR 1 million and, taking
into account the volatility estimated in accordance with (b), 2. Commodity swaps where one side of the transaction is a
the expected peak own funds requirements do not exceed fixed price and the other the current market price shall be
6,5 % of its own funds; treated, as a series of positions equal to the notional amount
of the contract, with, where relevant, one position
corresponding with each payment on the swap and slotted
(d) the institution monitors on an ongoing basis whether the into the maturity bands in Article 359(1). The positions shall
estimates carried out under points (a) and (b) still reflect the be long positions if the institution is paying a fixed price and
reality. receiving a floating price and short positions if the institution is
receiving a fixed price and paying a floating price. Commodity
swaps where the sides of the transaction are in different
2. Institutions shall notify to the competent authorities the commodities are to be reported in the relevant reporting
use they make of the option provided in paragraph 1. ladder for the maturity ladder approach.
L 176/214 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Options and warrants on commodities or on commodity Table 1
derivatives shall be treated as if they were positions equal in
value to the amount of the underlying to which the option Maturity band Spread rate (in %)
refers, multiplied by its delta for the purposes of this Chapter. (1) (2)
The latter positions may be netted off against any offsetting
0 ≤ 1 month 1,50
positions in the identical underlying commodity or
commodity derivative. The delta used shall be that of the
> 1 ≤ 3 months 1,50
exchange concerned. For OTC options, or where delta is not
available from the exchange concerned the institution may > 3 ≤ 6 months 1,50
calculate delta itself using an appropriate model, subject to
permission by the competent authorities. Permission shall be > 6 ≤ 12 months 1,50
granted if the model appropriately estimates the rate of
change of the option's or warrant's value with respect to > 1 ≤ 2 years 1,50
small changes in the market price of the underlying.
> 2 ≤ 3 years 1,50
> 3 years 1,50
Institutions shall adequately reflect other risks associated with
options, apart from the delta risk, in the own funds require­
ments.
2. Positions in the same commodity may be offset and
assigned to the appropriate maturity bands on a net basis for
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards the following:
defining a range of methods to reflect in the own funds
requirements other risks, apart from delta risk, in a manner
proportionate to the scale and complexity of institutions'
(a) positions in contracts maturing on the same date;
activities in options.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to (b) positions in contracts maturing within 10 days of each
the Commission by 31 December 2013. other if the contracts are traded on markets which have
daily delivery dates.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
3. The institution shall then calculate the sum of the long
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
positions and the sum of the short positions in each maturity
No 1093/2010.
band. The amount of the former which are matched by the
latter in a given maturity band shall be the matched positions
in that band, while the residual long or short position shall be
Before the entry into force of the technical standards referred to
the unmatched position for the same band.
in the first subparagraph, competent authorities may continue
to apply the existing national treatments, where the competent
authorities have applied those treatments before 31 December
2013. 4. That part of the unmatched long position for a given
maturity band that is matched by the unmatched short
position, or vice versa, for a maturity band further out shall
5. Where an institution is either of the following, it shall be the matched position between two maturity bands. That part
include the commodities concerned in the calculation of its of the unmatched long or unmatched short position that cannot
own funds requirement for commodities risk: be thus matched shall be the unmatched position.
(a) the transferor of commodities or guaranteed rights relating 5. The institution's own funds requirement for each
to title to commodities in a repurchase agreement; commodity shall be calculated on the basis of the relevant
maturity ladder as the sum of the following:
(b) the lender of commodities in a commodities lending
agreement.
(a) the sum of the matched long and short positions, multiplied
by the appropriate spread rate as indicated in the second
column of Table 1 for each maturity band and by the spot
Article 359
price for the commodity;
Maturity ladder approach
1. The institution shall use a separate maturity ladder in line
with Table 1 for each commodity. All positions in that (b) the matched position between two maturity bands for each
commodity shall be assigned to the appropriate maturity maturity band into which an unmatched position is carried
bands. Physical stocks shall be assigned to the first maturity forward, multiplied by 0,6 %, which is the carry rate and by
band between 0 and up to and including 1 month. the spot price for the commodity;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/215
(c) the residual unmatched positions, multiplied by 15 % which CHAPTER 5
is the outright rate and by the spot price for the
Use of internal models to calculate own funds requirements
commodity.
S e c t i o n 1
6. The institution's overall own funds requirement for P e r m i s s i o n a n d o w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s
commodities risk shall be calculated as the sum of the own
Article 362
funds requirements calculated for each commodity in
accordance with paragraph 5. Specific and general risks
Position risk on a traded debt instrument or equity instrument
Article 360 or derivative thereof may be divided into two components for
purposes of this Chapter. The first shall be its specific risk
Simplified approach
component and shall encompass the risk of a price change in
1. The institution's own funds requirement for each the instrument concerned due to factors related to its issuer or,
commodity shall be calculated as the sum of the following: in the case of a derivative, the issuer of the underlying
instrument. The general risk component shall encompass the
risk of a price change in the instrument due in the case of a
(a) 15 % of the net position, long or short, multiplied by the traded debt instrument or debt derivative to a change in the
spot price for the commodity; level of interest rates or in the case of an equity or equity
derivative to a broad equity-market movement unrelated to
any specific attributes of individual securities.
(b) 3 % of the gross position, long plus short, multiplied by the
spot price for the commodity.
Article 363
2. The institution's overall own funds requirement for
Permission to use internal models
commodities risk shall be calculated as the sum of the own
funds requirements calculated for each commodity in 1. After having verified an institution's compliance with the
accordance with paragraph 1. requirements of Sections 2, 3 and 4 as relevant, competent
authorities shall grant permission to institutions to calculate
their own funds requirements for one or more of the
Article 361
following risk categories by using their internal models
Extended maturity ladder approach instead of or in combination with the methods in Chapters 2
to 4:
Institutions may use the minimum spread, carry and outright
rates set out in the following table 2 instead of those indicated
in Article 359 provided that the institutions:
(a) general risk of equity instruments;
(a) undertake significant commodities business;
(b) specific risk of equity instruments;
(b) have an appropriately diversified commodities portfolio;
(c) general risk of debt instruments;
(c) are not yet in a position to use internal models for the
purpose of calculating the own funds requirement for
commodities risk.
(d) specific risk of debt instruments;
Table 2
(e) foreign-exchange risk;
Other,
Precious Agricultural
including
metals Base metals products
energy
(except gold) (softs)
products
(f) commodities risk.
Spread rate (%) 1,0 1,2 1,5 1,5
Carry rate (%) 0,3 0,5 0,6 0,6 2. For risk categories for which the institution has not been
granted the permission referred to in paragraph 1 to use its
Outright rate (%) 8 10 12 15
internal models, that institution shall continue to calculate
own funds requirements in accordance with those Chapters 2,
3 and 4 as relevant. Permission by the competent authorities for
Institutions shall notify the use they make of this Article to their the use of internal models shall be required for each risk
competent authorities together with evidence of their efforts to category and shall be granted only if the internal model
implement an internal model for the purpose of calculating the covers a significant share of the positions of a certain risk
own funds requirement for commodities risk. category.
L 176/216 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Material changes to the use of internal models that the (b) the higher of the following values:
institution has received permission to use, the extension of the
use of internal models that the institution has received
permission to use, in particular to additional risk categories, (i) its latest available stressed-value-at-risk number
and the initial calculation of stressed value-at-risk in accordance calculated in accordance with Article 365(2) (sVaR
t -1
);
with Article 365(2) require a separate permission by the and
competent authority.
(ii) an average of the stressed value-at-risk numbers
Institutions shall notify the competent authorities of all other calculated in the manner and frequency specified in
extensions and changes to the use of those internal models that Article 365(2) during the preceding sixty business days
the institution has received permission to use. (sVaR
a
vg) , multiplied by the multiplication factor (m s) in
accordance with Article 366;
4. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following: 2. Institutions that use an internal model to calculate their
own funds requirement for specific risk of debt instruments
shall fulfil an additional own funds requirement expressed as
(a) the conditions for assessing materiality of extensions and the sum of the following points (a) and (b):
changes to the use of internal models;
(a) the own funds requirement calculated in accordance with
(b) the assessment methodology under which competent auth­ Article 337 and 338 for the specific risk of securitisation
orities permit institutions to use internal models; positions and nth to default credit derivatives in the trading
book with the exception of those incorporated in an own
funds requirement for the specific risk of the correlation
(c) the conditions under which the share of positions covered trading portfolio in accordance with Section 5 and, where
by the internal model within a risk category shall be applicable, the own funds requirement for specific risk in
considered significant as referred to in paragraph 2. accordance with Chapter 2, Section 6, for those positions in
CIUs for which neither the conditions in Article 350(1) nor
Article 350(2) are fulfilled;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2014.
(b) the higher of:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in (i) the most recent risk number for the incremental default
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) and migration risk calculated in accordance with
No 1093/2010. Section 3;
Article 364 (ii) the average of this number over the preceding 12
weeks.
Own funds requirements when using internal models
1. Each institution using an internal model shall fulfil, in
addition to own funds requirements calculated in accordance 3. Institutions that have a correlation trading portfolio,
with Chapters 2, 3 and 4 for those risk categories for which which meets the requirements in Article 338(1) to (3), may
permission to use an internal model has not been granted, an fulfil an own funds requirement on the basis of Article 377
own funds requirement expressed as the sum of points (a) and instead of Article 338(4), calculated as the higher of the
(b): following:
(a) the higher of the following values: (a) the most recent risk number for the correlation trading
portfolio calculated in accordance with Section 5;
(i) its previous day's value-at-risk number calculated in
accordance with Article 365(1) (VaR
t -1
); (b) the average of this number over the preceding 12-weeks;
(ii) an average of the daily value-at-risk numbers calculated (c) 8 % of the own funds requirement that would, at the time
in accordance with Article 365(1) on each of the of calculation of the most recent risk number referred to in
preceding sixty business days (VaR
a
vg) , multiplied by point (a), be calculated in accordance with Article 338(4) for
the multiplication factor (m c) in accordance with all those positions incorporated into the internal model for
Article 366; the correlation trading portfolio.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/217
S e c t i o n 2 Table 1
G e n e r a l r e q u i r e m e n t s
Number of overshootings addend
Article 365
Fewer than 5 0,00
VaR and stressed VaR Calculation
5 0,40
1. The calculation of the value-at-risk number referred to in
Article 364 shall be subject to the following requirements: 6 0,50
7 0,65
(a) daily calculation of the value-at-risk number; 8 0,75
9 0,85
(b) a 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval; 10 or more 1,00
(c) a 10-day holding period; 3. The institutions shall count daily overshootings on the
basis of back-testing on hypothetical and actual changes in
the portfolio's value. An overshooting is a one-day change in
the portfolio's value that exceeds the related one-day value-at-
(d) an effective historical observation period of at least one year risk number generated by the institution's model. For the
except where a shorter observation period is justified by a purpose of determining the addend the number of over­
significant upsurge in price volatility; shootings shall be assessed at least quarterly and shall be
equal to the higher of the number of overshootings under
hypothetical and actual changes in the value of the portfolio.
(e) at least monthly data set updates.
Back-testing on hypothetical changes in the portfolio's value
shall be based on a comparison between the portfolio's end-
The institution may use value-at-risk numbers calculated of-day value and, assuming unchanged positions, its value at the
according to shorter holding periods than 10 days scaled up end of the subsequent day.
to 10 days by an appropriate methodology that is reviewed
periodically.
Back-testing on actual changes in the portfolio's value shall be
based on a comparison between the portfolio's end-of-day value
and its actual value at the end of the subsequent day excluding
2. In addition, the institution shall at least weekly calculate a
fees, commissions, and net interest income.
'stressed value-at-risk' of the current portfolio, in accordance
with the requirements set out in the first paragraph, with
value-at-risk model inputs calibrated to historical data from a
continuous 12-month period of significant financial stress 4. The competent authorities may in individual cases limit
relevant to the institution's portfolio. The choice of such the addend to that resulting from overshootings under hypo­
historical data shall be subject to at least annual review by thetical changes, where the number of overshootings under
the institution, which shall notify the outcome to the actual changes does not result from deficiencies in the
competent authorities. EBA shall monitor the range of internal model.
practices for calculating stressed value at risk and shall, in
accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010,
issue guidelines on such practices. 5. In order to allow competent authorities to monitor the
appropriateness of the multiplication factors on an ongoing
basis, institutions shall notify promptly, and in any case no
later than within five working days, the competent authorities
Article 366
of overshootings that result form their back-testing programme.
Regulatory back testing and multiplication factors
1. The results of the calculations referred to in Article 365 Article 367
shall be scaled up by the multiplication factors (m c) and (m s) .
Requirements on risk measurement
1. Any internal model used to calculate capital requirements
2. Each of the multiplication factors (m c) and (m s) shall be for position risk, foreign exchange risk, commodities risk and
the sum of at least 3 and an addend between 0 and 1 in any internal model for correlation trading shall meet all of the
accordance with Table 1. That addend shall depend on the following requirements:
number of overshootings for the most recent 250 business
days as evidenced by the institution's back-testing of the
value-at-risk number as set out in Article 365(1). (a) the model shall capture accurately all material price risks;
L 176/218 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the model shall capture a sufficient number of risk factors, with limited price transparency under realistic market scen­
depending on the level of activity of the institution in the arios. In addition, the internal model shall meet minimum
respective markets. Where a risk factor is incorporated into data standards. Proxies shall be appropriately conservative
the institution's pricing model but not into the risk- and shall be used only where available data is insufficient or
measurement model, the institution shall be able to justify is not reflective of the true volatility of a position or port­
such an omission to the satisfaction of the competent auth­ folio.
ority. The risk- measurement model shall capture nonlin­
earities for options and other products as well as correlation
risk and basis risk. Where proxies for risk factors are used
they shall show a good track record for the actual position
3. Institutions may, in any internal model used for purposes
held.
of this Chapter, use empirical correlations within risk categories
and across risk categories only if the institution's approach for
measuring correlations is sound and implemented with
integrity.
2. Any internal model used to calculate capital requirements
for position risk, foreign exchange risk or commodities risk
shall meet all of the following requirements:
Article 368
Qualitative requirements
(a) the model shall incorporate a set of risk factors
corresponding to the interest rates in each currency in 1. Any internal model used for purposes of this Chapter
which the institution has interest rate sensitive on- or off- shall be conceptually sound and implemented with integrity
balance sheet positions. The institution shall model the yield and, in particular, all of the following qualitative requirements
curves using one of the generally accepted approaches. For shall be met:
material exposures to interest-rate risk in the major
currencies and markets, the yield curve shall be divided
into a minimum of six maturity segments, to capture the
variations of volatility of rates along the yield curve. The
(a) any internal model used to calculate capital requirements for
model shall also capture the risk of less than perfectly
position risk, foreign exchange risk or commodities risk
correlated movements between different yield curves;
shall be closely integrated into the daily risk-management
process of the institution and serve as the basis for
reporting risk exposures to senior management;
(b) the model shall incorporate risk factors corresponding to
gold and to the individual foreign currencies in which the
institution's positions are denominated. For CIUs the actual
foreign exchange positions of the CIU shall be taken into (b) the institution shall have a risk control unit that is inde­
account. Institutions may rely on third party reporting of pendent from business trading units and reports directly to
the foreign exchange position of the CIU, where the senior management. The unit shall be responsible for
correctness of that report is adequately ensured. If an insti­ designing and implementing any internal model used for
tution is not aware of the foreign exchange positions of a purposes of this Chapter. The unit shall conduct the
CIU, this position shall be carved out and treated in initial and on-going validation of any internal model used
accordance with Article 353(3); for purposes of this Chapter, being responsible for the
overall risk management system. The unit shall produce
and analyse daily reports on the output of any internal
model used for calculating capital requirements for
(c) the model shall use a separate risk factor at least for each of position risk, foreign exchange risk and commodities risk,
the equity markets in which the institution holds significant and on the appropriate measures to be taken in terms of
positions; trading limits;
(d) the model shall use a separate risk factor at least for each
(c) the institution's management body and senior management
commodity in which the institution holds significant posi­
shall be actively involved in the risk-control process and the
tions. The model shall also capture the risk of less than
daily reports produced by the risk-control unit are reviewed
perfectly correlated movements between similar, but not
by a level of management with sufficient authority to
identical, commodities and the exposure to changes in
enforce both reductions of positions taken by individual
forward prices arising from maturity mismatches. It shall
traders as well as in the institution's overall risk exposure;
also take account of market characteristics, notably
delivery dates and the scope provided to traders to close
out positions;
(d) the institution shall have sufficient numbers of staff skilled
in the use of sophisticated internal models, and including
(e) the institution's internal model shall conservatively assess those used for purposes of this Chapter, in the trading, risk-
the risk arising from less liquid positions and positions control, audit and back-office areas;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/219
(e) the institution shall have established procedures for moni­ (e) the accuracy and completeness of position data, the
toring and ensuring compliance with a documented set of accuracy and appropriateness of volatility and correlation
internal policies and controls concerning the overall assumptions, and the accuracy of valuation and risk sensi­
operation of its internal models, and including those used tivity calculations;
for purposes of this Chapter;
(f) the verification process the institution employs to evaluate
(f) any internal model used for purposes of this Chapter shall the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources
have a proven track record of reasonable accuracy in used to run internal models, including the independence
measuring risks; of such data sources;
(g) the verification process the institution uses to evaluate back-
(g) the institution shall frequently conduct a rigorous
testing that is conducted to assess the models' accuracy.
programme of stress testing, including reverse stress tests,
which encompasses any internal model used for purposes of
this Chapter and the results of these stress tests shall be
reviewed by senior management and reflected in the 3. As techniques and best practices evolve, institutions shall
policies and limits it sets. This process shall particularly apply those new techniques and practices in any internal model
address illiquidity of markets in stressed market conditions, used for purposes of this Chapter.
concentration risk, one way markets, event and jump-to-
default risks, non-linearity of products, deep out-of-the-
money positions, positions subject to the gapping of
prices and other risks that may not be captured appro­ Article 369
priately in the internal models. The shocks applied shall
Internal Validation
reflect the nature of the portfolios and the time it could
take to hedge out or manage risks under severe market 1. Institutions shall have processes in place to ensure that all
conditions; their internal models used for purposes of this Chapter have
been adequately validated by suitably qualified parties inde­
pendent of the development process to ensure that they are
conceptually sound and adequately capture all material risks.
(h) the institution shall conduct, as part of its regular internal The validation shall be conducted when the internal model is
auditing process, an independent review of its internal initially developed and when any significant changes are made
models, and including those used for purposes of this to the internal model. The validation shall also be conducted on
Chapter. a periodic basis but especially where there have been any
significant structural changes in the market or changes to the
composition of the portfolio which might lead to the internal
model no longer being adequate. As techniques and best
2. The review referred to in point (h) of paragraph 1 shall practices for internal validation evolve, institutions shall apply
include both the activities of the business trading units and of these advances. Internal model validation shall not be limited to
the independent risk-control unit. At least once a year, the back-testing, but shall, at a minimum, also include the
institution shall conduct a review of its overall risk-management following:
process. The review shall consider the following:
(a) tests to demonstrate that any assumptions made within the
(a) the adequacy of the documentation of the risk-management internal model are appropriate and do not underestimate or
system and process and the organisation of the risk-control overestimate the risk;
unit;
(b) in addition to the regulatory back-testing programmes, insti­
tutions shall carry out their own internal model validation
(b) the integration of risk measures into daily risk management
tests, including back-testing, in relation to the risks and
and the integrity of the management information system;
structures of their portfolios;
(c) the process the institution employs for approving risk- (c) the use of hypothetical portfolios to ensure that the internal
pricing models and valuation systems that are used by model is able to account for particular structural features
front and back-office personnel; that may arise, for example material basis risks and concen­
tration risk.
(d) the scope of risks captured by the risk-measurement model
and the validation of any significant changes in the risk- 2. The institution shall perform back-testing on both actual
measurement process; and hypothetical changes in the portfolio's value.
L 176/220 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
S e c t i o n 3 shall also have an internal incremental default and migration
risk (IRC) model in place to capture the default and migration
R e q u i r e m e n t s p a r t i c u l a r t o s p e c i f i c r i s k
risks of its trading book positions that are incremental to the
m o d e l l i n g
risks captured by the value-at-risk measure as specified in
Article 370 Article 365(1). The institution shall demonstrate that its
internal model meets the following standards under the
Requirements for modelling specific risk assumption of a constant level of risk, and adjusted where
appropriate to reflect the impact of liquidity, concentrations,
An internal model used for calculating own funds requirements
hedging and optionality:
for specific risk and an internal model for correlation trading
shall meet the following additional requirements:
(a) the internal model provides a meaningful differentiation of
(a) it explains the historical price variation in the portfolio;
risk and accurate and consistent estimates of incremental
default and migration risk;
(b) it captures concentration in terms of magnitude and
changes of composition of the portfolio;
(b) the internal model's estimates for potential losses play an
essential role in the risk management of the institution;
(c) it is robust to an adverse environment;
(c) the market and position data used for the internal model are
(d) it is validated through back-testing aimed at assessing
up-to-date and subject to an appropriate quality assessment;
whether specific risk is being accurately captured. If the
institution performs such back-testing on the basis of
relevant sub-portfolios, these shall be chosen in a consistent
manner;
(d) the requirements in Article 367(3), Article 368,
Article 369(1) and points (b), (c), (e) and (f) of Article 370
are met.
(e) it captures name-related basis risk and shall in particular be
sensitive to material idiosyncratic differences between
similar but not identical positions;
EBA shall issue guidelines on the requirements in Articles 373
to 376.
(f) it captures event risk.
Article 371 Article 373
Exclusions from specific risk models Scope of the internal IRC model
1. An institution may choose to exclude from the calculation The internal IRC model shall cover all positions subject to an
of its specific risk own funds requirement using an internal own funds requirement for specific interest rate risk, including
model those positions for which it fulfils an own funds those subject to a 0 % specific risk capital charge under
requirement for specific risk in accordance with Article 332(1)(e) Article 336, but shall not cover securitisation positions and
or Article 337 with exception of those positions that are subject n-th-to-default credit derivatives.
to the approach set out in Article 377.
The institution may, subject to permission by the competent
2. An institution may choose not to capture default and
authorities, choose to consistently include all listed equity
migration risks for traded debt instruments in its internal
positions and derivatives positions based on listed equities.
model where it is capturing those risks through the
The permission shall be granted if such inclusion is consistent
requirements set out in Section 4.
with how the institution internally measures and manages risk.
S e c t i o n 4
Article 374
I n t e r n a l m o d e l f o r i n c r e m e n t a l d e f a u l t a n d
m i g r a t i o n r i s k Parameters of the internal IRC model
Article 372 1. Institutions shall use the internal model to calculate a
number which measures losses due to default and internal or
Requirement to have an internal IRC model
external ratings migration at the 99,9 % confidence interval over
An institution that use an internal model for calculating own a time horizon of one year. Institutions shall calculate this
funds requirements for specific risk of traded debt instruments number at least weekly.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/221
2. Correlation assumptions shall be supported by analysis of Positions may be netted when long and short positions refer to
objective data in a conceptually sound framework. The internal the same financial instrument. Hedging or diversification effects
model shall appropriately reflect issuer concentrations. Concen­ associated with long and short positions involving different
trations that can arise within and across product classes under instruments or different securities of the same obligor, as well
stressed conditions shall also be reflected. as long and short positions in different issuers, may only be
recognised by explicitly modelling gross long and short
positions in the different instruments. Institutions shall reflect
the impact of material risks that could occur during the interval
3. The internal IRC model shall reflect the impact of between the hedge's maturity and the liquidity horizon as well
correlations between default and migration events. The impact as the potential for significant basis risks in hedging strategies
of diversification between, on the one hand, default and by product, seniority in the capital structure, internal or external
migration events and, on the other hand, other risk factors rating, maturity, vintage and other differences in the instru­
shall not be reflected. ments. An institution shall reflect a hedge only to the extent
that it can be maintained even as the obligor approaches a
credit or other event.
4. The internal model shall be based on the assumption of a
constant level of risk over the one-year time horizon, implying
2. For positions that are hedged via dynamic hedging strat­
that given individual trading book positions or sets of positions
egies, a rebalancing of the hedge within the liquidity horizon of
that have experienced default or migration over their liquidity
the hedged position may be recognised provided that the insti­
horizon are re-balanced at the end of their liquidity horizon to
tution:
attain the initial level of risk. Alternatively, an institution may
choose to consistently use a one-year constant position
assumption.
(a) chooses to model rebalancing of the hedge consistently over
the relevant set of trading book positions;
5. The liquidity horizons shall be set according to the time
required to sell the position or to hedge all material relevant
(b) demonstrates that the inclusion of rebalancing results in a
price risks in a stressed market, having particular regard to the
better risk measurement;
size of the position. Liquidity horizons shall reflect actual
practice and experience during periods of both systematic and
idiosyncratic stresses. The liquidity horizon shall be measured
under conservative assumptions and shall be sufficiently long (c) demonstrates that the markets for the instruments serving
that the act of selling or hedging, in itself, would not materially as hedges are liquid enough to allow for such rebalancing
affect the price at which the selling or hedging would be even during periods of stress. Any residual risks resulting
executed. from dynamic hedging strategies shall be reflected in the
own funds requirement.
6. The determination of the appropriate liquidity horizon for
Article 376
a position or set of positions is subject to a floor of three
months. Particular requirements for the internal IRC model
1. The internal model to capture the incremental default and
migration risks shall reflect the nonlinear impact of options,
7. The determination of the appropriate liquidity horizon for structured credit derivatives and other positions with material
a position or set of positions shall take into account an insti­ nonlinear behaviour with respect to price changes. The insti­
tution's internal policies relating to valuation adjustments and tution shall also have due regard to the amount of model risk
the management of stale positions. When an institution inherent in the valuation and estimation of price risks associated
determines liquidity horizons for sets of positions rather than with such products.
for individual positions, the criteria for defining sets of positions
shall be defined in a way that meaningfully reflects differences
in liquidity. The liquidity horizons shall be greater for positions 2. The internal model shall be based on data that are
that are concentrated, reflecting the longer period needed to objective and up-to-date.
liquidate such positions. The liquidity horizon for a securiti­
sation warehouse shall reflect the time to build, sell and
securitise the assets, or to hedge the material risk factors,
3. As part of the independent review and validation of their
under stressed market conditions.
internal models used for purposes of this Chapter, inclusively
for purposes of the risk measurement system, an institution
shall in particular do all of the following:
Article 375
Recognition of hedges in the internal IRC model
(a) validate that its modelling approach for correlations and
1. Hedges may be incorporated into an institution's internal price changes is appropriate for its portfolio, including the
model to capture the incremental default and migration risks. choice and weights of its systematic risk factors;
L 176/222 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) perform a variety of stress tests, including sensitivity analysis (b) credit spread risk, including the gamma and cross-gamma
and scenario analysis, to assess the qualitative and quanti­ effects;
tative reasonableness of the internal model, particularly with
regard to the treatment of concentrations. Such tests shall
not be limited to the range of events experienced histori­ (c) volatility of implied correlations, including the cross effect
cally; between spreads and correlations;
(c) apply appropriate quantitative validation including relevant (d) basis risk, including both of the following:
internal modelling benchmarks.
(i) the basis between the spread of an index and those of
4. The internal model shall be consistent with the institu­ its constituent single names;
tion's internal risk management methodologies for identifying,
measuring, and managing trading risks.
(ii) the basis between the implied correlation of an index
and that of bespoke portfolios;
5. Institutions shall document their internal models so that
its correlation and other modelling assumptions are transparent
(e) recovery rate volatility, as it relates to the propensity for
to the competent authorities.
recovery rates to affect tranche prices;
6. The internal model shall conservatively assess the risk
(f) to the extent the comprehensive risk measure incorporates
arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited
benefits from dynamic hedging, the risk of hedge slippage
price transparency under realistic market scenarios. In
and the potential costs of rebalancing such hedges;
addition, the internal model shall meet minimum data stan­
dards. Proxies shall be appropriately conservative and may be
used only where available data is insufficient or is not reflective
(g) any other material price risks of positions in the correlation
of the true volatility of a position or portfolio.
trading portfolio.
S e c t i o n 5
4. An institution shall use sufficient market data within the
I n t e r n a l m o d e l f o r c o r r e l a t i o n t r a d i n g model referred to in paragraph 1 in order to ensure that it fully
captures the salient risks of those exposures in its internal
Article 377 approach in accordance with the requirements set out in this
Article. It shall be able to demonstrate to the competent
Requirements for an internal model for correlation trading
authority through back testing or other appropriate means
1. Competent authorities shall grant permission to use an that its model can appropriately explain the historical price
internal model for the own funds requirement for the variation of those products.
correlation trading portfolio instead of the own funds
requirement in accordance with Article 338 to institutions
that are allowed to use an internal model for specific risk of The institution shall have appropriate policies and procedures in
debt instruments and that meet the requirements in paragraphs place in order to separate the positions for which it holds
2 to 6 of this Article and in Article 367(1) and (3), Article 368, permission to incorporate them in the own funds requirement
Article 369(1) and points (a), (b), (c), (e) and (f) of Article 370. in accordance with this Article from other positions for which it
does not hold such permission.
2. Institutions shall use this internal model to calculate a
number which adequately measures all price risks at the 5. With regard to the portfolio of all the positions incor­
99,9 % confidence interval over a time horizon of one year porated in the model referred to in paragraph 1, the institution
under the assumption of a constant level of risk, and adjusted shall regularly apply a set of specific, predetermined stress scen­
where appropriate to reflect the impact of liquidity, concen­ arios. Such stress scenarios shall examine the effects of stress to
trations, hedging and optionality. Institutions shall calculate default rates, recovery rates, credit spreads, basis risk,
this number at least weekly. correlations and other relevant risk factors on the correlation
trading portfolio. The institution shall apply stress scenarios at
least weekly and report at least quarterly to the competent
authorities the results, including comparisons with the institu­
3. The following risks shall be adequately captured by the
tion's own funds requirement in accordance with this Article.
model referred to in paragraph 1:
Any instances where the stress test results materially exceed the
own funds requirement for the correlation trading portfolio
shall be reported to the competent authorities in a timely
(a) the cumulative risk arising from multiple defaults, including manner. EBA shall issue guidelines on the application of
different ordering of defaults, in tranched products; stress scenarios for the correlation trading portfolio.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/223
6. The internal model shall conservatively assess the risk order to calculate the institution's own funds requirement for
arising from less liquid positions and positions with limited settlement risk.
price transparency under realistic market scenarios. In
addition, the internal model shall meet minimum data stan­
dards. Proxies shall be appropriately conservative and may be Table 1
used only where available data is insufficient or is not reflective
of the true volatility of a position or portfolio. Number of working days after due settlement date (%)
5 — 15 8
TITLE V
16 — 30 50
OWN FUNDS REQUIREMENTS FOR SETTLEMENT RISK
31 — 45 75
Article 378
46 or more 100
Settlement/delivery risk
In the case of transactions in which debt instruments, equities,
foreign currencies and commodities excluding repurchase trans­
actions and securities or commodities lending and securities or Article 379
commodities borrowing are unsettled after their due delivery
Free deliveries
dates, an institution shall calculate the price difference to
which it is exposed.
1. An institution shall be required to hold own funds, as set
out in Table 2, where the following occurs:
The price difference is calculated as the difference between the
agreed settlement price for the debt instrument, equity, foreign (a) it has paid for securities, foreign currencies or commodities
currency or commodity in question and its current market before receiving them or it has delivered securities, foreign
value, where the difference could involve a loss for the credit currencies or commodities before receiving payment for
institution. them;
The institution shall multiply that price difference by the appro­ (b) in the case of cross-border transactions, one day or more
priate factor in the right column of the following Table 1 in has elapsed since it made that payment or delivery.
Table 2
Capital treatment for free deliveries
Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 Column 4
Transaction Type Up to first contractual From first contractual From 5 business days post
payment or delivery leg payment or delivery leg up second contractual payment
to four days after second or delivery leg until extinction
contractual payment or of the transaction
delivery leg
Free delivery No capital charge Treat as an exposure Treat as an exposure risk
weighted at 1 250 %
2. In applying a risk weight to free delivery exposures treated according to Column 3 of Table 2, an
institution using the Internal Ratings Based approach set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3 may assign
PDs to counterparties, for which it has no other non-trading book exposure, on the basis of the counter­
party's external rating. Institutions using own estimates of 'LGDs' may apply the LGD set out in
Article 161(1) to free delivery exposures treated according to Column 3 of Table 2 provided that they
apply it to all such exposures. Alternatively, an institution using the Internal Ratings Based approach set out
in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3 may apply the risk weights of the Standardised Approach, as set out in Part
Three, Title II, Chapter 2 provided that it applies them to all such exposures or may apply a 100 % risk
weight to all such exposures.
If the amount of positive exposure resulting from free delivery transactions is not material, institutions may
apply a risk weight of 100 % to these exposures, except where a risk weight of 1 250 % in accordance with
Column 4 of Table 2 in paragraph 1 is required.
L 176/224 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. As an alternative to applying a risk weight of 1 250 % to with non-financial counterparties established in a third
free delivery exposures according to Column 4 of Table 2 in country, where those transactions do not exceed the
paragraph 1, institutions may deduct the value transferred plus clearing threshold as specified in Article 10(3) and (4) of
the current positive exposure of those exposures from Common that Regulation;
Equity Tier 1 items in accordance with point (k) of
Article 36(1).
(b) intragroup transactions as provided for in Article 3 of Regu­
Article 380 lation (EU) No 648/2012 unless Member States adopt
national laws requiring the structural separation within a
Waiver
banking group, in which case competent authorities may
Where a system wide failure of a settlement system, a clearing require those intragroup transactions between the struc­
system or a CCP occurs, competent authorities may waive the turally separated institutions to be included in the own
own funds requirements calculated as set out in Articles 378 funds requirements;
and 379 until the situation is rectified. In this case, the failure of
a counterparty to settle a trade shall not be deemed a default for
purposes of credit risk.
(c) transactions with counterparties referred to in point (10) of
Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and subject to
TITLE VI the transitional provisions set out in Article 89(1) of that
Regulation until those transitional provisions cease to apply;
OWN FUNDS REQUIREMENTS FOR CREDIT VALUATION
ADJUSTMENT RISK
Article 381
(d) transactions with counterparties referred to in Article 1(4)(a)
Meaning of Credit Valuation Adjustment
and (b) and Article 1(5)(a), (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU)
For the purposes of this Title and Chapter 6 of Title II, 'Credit No 648/2012 and transactions with counterparties for
Valuation Adjustment' or 'CVA' means an adjustment to the which Article 115 of this Regulation specifies a risk
mid-market valuation of the portfolio of transactions with a weight of 0 % for exposures to those counterparties.
counterparty. That adjustment reflects the current market
value of the credit risk of the counterparty to the institution,
but does not reflect the current market value of the credit risk
of the institution to the counterparty. The exemption from the CVA charge for those transactions
referred to in point (c) of this paragraph) which are entered
into during the transitional period laid down in Article 89(1)
Article 382 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 shall apply for the length of
the contract of that transaction.
Scope
1. An institution shall calculate the own funds requirements
for CVA risk in accordance with this Title for all OTC derivative
instruments in respect of all of its business activities, other than 5. EBA shall conduct a review by 1 January 2015 and every
credit derivatives recognised to reduce risk-weighted exposure two years thereafter, in the light of international regulatory
amounts for credit risk. developments and including on potential methodologies on
the calibration and thresholds for application of CVA charges
to non-financial counterparties established in a third country.
2. An institution shall include securities financing trans­
actions in the calculation of own funds required by paragraph
1 if the competent authority determines that the institution's
CVA risk exposures arising from those transactions are material.
EBA in cooperation with ESMA shall develop draft regulatory
technical standards to specify the procedures for excluding
transactions with non-financial counterparties established in a
3. Transactions with a qualifying central counterparty and a
third country from the own funds requirement for CVA risk.
client's transactions with a clearing member, when the clearing
member is acting as an intermediary between the client and a
qualifying central counterparty and the transactions give rise to
a trade exposure of the clearing member to the qualifying
central counterparty, are excluded from the own funds EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards
requirements for CVA risk. within six months of the date of the review referred to in the
first subparagraph,
4. The following transactions shall be excluded from the
own funds requirements for CVA risk:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the second subparagraph in
(a) transactions with non-financial counterparties as defined in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
point (9) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, or No 1093/2010.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/225
Article 383
Advanced method
1. An institution which has permission to use an internal model for the specific risk of debt instruments
in accordance with point (d) of Article 363 (1) shall, for all transactions for which it has permission to use
the IMM for determining the exposure value for the associated counterparty credit risk exposure in
accordance with Article 283, determine the own funds requirements for CVA risk by modelling the
impact of changes in the counterparties' credit spreads on the CVAs of all counterparties of those trans­
actions, taking into account CVA hedges that are eligible in accordance with Article 386.
An institution shall use its internal model for determining the own funds requirements for the specific risk
associated with traded debt positions and shall apply a 99 % confidence interval and a 10-day equivalent
holding period. The internal model shall be used in such way that it simulates changes in the credit spreads
of counterparties, but does not model the sensitivity of CVA to changes in other market factors, including
changes in the value of the reference asset, commodity, currency or interest rate of a derivative.
The own funds requirements for CVA risk for each counterparty shall be calculated in accordance with the
following formula:
CVA LGD
MKT
·
T
max 0,exp –
s
i – 1
· t
i – 1 – exp –
s
i
· t
i ·
EE
i – 1
· D
i – 1 þ
EE
i
· D
i
¼ i 1 ( 8 LGD MKT 9 8 LGD MKT9 ) 2
X¼ >>>: >>>; >>>: >>>;
where:
t
i
= the time of the i-th revaluation, starting from t
0
=0;
t
T
= the longest contractual maturity across the netting sets with the counterparty;
s
i
= is the credit spread of the counterparty at tenor ti, used to calculate the CVA of the counter­
party. Where the credit default swap spread of the counterparty is available, an institution
shall use that spread. Where such a credit default swap spread is not available, an institution
shall use a proxy spread that is appropriate having regard to the rating, industry and region of
the counterparty;
LGD
M KT
= the LGD of the counterparty that shall be based on the spread of a market instrument of the
counterparty if a counterparty instrument is available. Where a counterparty instrument is not
available, it shall be based on the proxy spread that is appropriate having regard to the rating,
industry and region of the counterparty.
The first factor within the sum represents an approximation of the market implied marginal
probability of a default occurring between times t
i -1
and t
i
;
EE
i
= the expected exposure to the counterparty at revaluation time ti, where exposures of different
netting sets for such counterparty are added, and where the longest maturity of each netting
set is given by the longest contractual maturity inside the netting set; An institution shall
apply the treatment set out in paragraph 3 in the case of margined trading, if the institution
uses the EPE measure referred to in point (a) or (b) of Article 285(1) for margined trades;
D
i
= the default risk-free discount factor at time ti, where D
0
=1.
2. When calculating the own funds requirements for CVA risk for a counterparty, an institution shall
base all inputs into its internal model for specific risk of debt instruments on the following formulae
(whichever is appropriate):
(a) where the model is based on full repricing, the formula in paragraph 1 shall be used directly;
(b) where the model is based on credit spread sensitivities for specific tenors, an institution shall base each
credit spread sensitivity ('Regulatory CS01') on the following formula:
Regulatory CS01 i 0:0001 · t i · exp –
s
i
· t
i ·
EE
i – 1
· D
i – 1
– EE
i þ 1
· D
i þ 1
¼
8
LGD
MKT9
2
>>: >>;
L 176/226 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
For the final time bucket i=T, the corresponding formula is
Regulatory CS01
T
0:0001 · t
T
· exp –
s
T
· t
T ·
EE
T – 1
· D
T – 1 þ
EE
T
· D
T
¼
8
LGD
MKT9
2
(c) where the model uses credit spread sensitivities
to>>:
p arallel
shif>>;ts
in credit spreads, an institution shall use
the following formula:
Regulatory CS01
¼
0:0001 ·
iT
1 8
t
i
· exp
8
–
LGs
i
D
· Mt
i
K T9
– t
i – 1
· exp
8
–
s
i
L
–
G
1
D
· Mt
i
K
–
T
1
9 9
·
EE
i – 1
· D
i –
2
1 þ
EE
i
· D
i
X¼
(d) where the model uses
secon>>:d
-order
>>:
se nsitivities
t>>;o
shifts in
cre>>:
dit spreads
(sp>>;rea >>;d
gamma), the gammas
shall be calculated based o n the formula in par agraph 1.
3. An institution using the EPE measure for collateralised (ii) the notional weighted average maturity of all trans­
OTC derivatives referred to in point (a) or (b) of Article 285(1) actions inside the netting set.
shall, when determining the own funds requirements for CVA
risk in accordance with paragraph 1, do both of the following:
5. An institution shall determine the own funds requirements
for CVA risk in accordance with Article 364(1) and Articles
(a) assume a constant EE profile;
365 and 367 as the sum of non-stressed and stressed Value-
at-Risk, which shall be calculated as follows:
(b) set EE equal to the effective expected exposure as calculated
under Article 285(1)(b) for a maturity equal to the greater
of the following: (a) for the non-stressed Value-at-Risk, current parameter cali­
brations for expected exposure as set out in the first
subparagraph of Article 292(2), shall be used;
(i) half of the longest maturity occurring in the netting set;
(b) for the stressed Value-at-Risk, future counterparty EE
(ii) the notional weighted average maturity of all trans­
profiles using a stressed calibration as set out in the
actions inside the netting set.
second subparagraph of Article 292(2) shall be used. The
period of stress for the credit spread parameters shall be the
most severe one-year stress period contained within the
4. An institution which is permitted by the competent
three-year stress period used for the exposure parameters;
authority in accordance with Article 283 to use IMM to
calculate exposure values in relation to the majority of its
business, but which uses the methods set out in Section 3,
Section 4 or Section 5 of Title II, Chapter 6 for smaller port­ (c) the three-times multiplier used in the calculation of own
folios, and which has permission to use the market risk internal funds requirements based on a Value-at-Risk and a
model for the specific risk of debt instruments in accordance stressed Value-at-Risk in accordance with 364(1) will
with point (d) of Article 363(1) may, subject to permission apply to these calculations. EBA shall monitor for
from the competent authorities, calculate the own funds consistency any supervisory discretion used to apply a
requirements for CVA risk in accordance with paragraph 1 higher multiplier than that three-times multiplier to the
for the non-IMM netting sets. Competent authorities shall Value-at-Risk and stressed Value-at-Risk inputs to the CVA
grant this permission only if the institution uses the methods charge. Competent authorities applying a multiplier higher
set out in Section 3, Section 4 or Section 5 of Title II, Chapter 6 than three shall provide a written justification to EBA;
for a limited number of smaller portfolios.
(d) the calculation shall be carried out on at least a monthly
For the purposes of a calculation under the preceding basis and the EE that is used shall be calculated on the same
subparagraph and where the IMM model does not produce an frequency. If lower than a daily frequency is used, for the
expected exposure profile, an institution shall do both of the purpose of the calculation specified in points (a)(ii) and
following: (b)(ii) of Article 364(1) institutions shall take the average
over three months.
(a) assume a constant EE profile;
6. For exposures to a counterparty, for which the institu­
(b) set EE equal to the exposure value as computed under the tion's approved internal model for the specific risk of debt
methods set out in Section 3, Section 4 or Section 5 of Title instruments does not produce a proxy spread that is appropriate
II, Chapter 6, or IMM for a maturity equal to the greater of: with respect to the criteria of rating, industry and region of the
counterparty, the institution shall use the method set out in
Article 384 to calculate the own funds requirement for CVA
(i) half of the longest maturity occurring in the netting set; risk.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/227
7. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify in greater detail:
(a) how a proxy spread is to be determined by the institution's approved internal model for the specific risk
of debt instruments for the purposes of identifying si and LGDMKT referred to in paragraph 1;
(b) the number and size of portfolios that fulfil the criterion of a limited number of smaller portfolios
referred to in paragraph 4.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first
subparagraph in accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
Article 384
Standardised method
1. An institution which does not calculate the own funds requirements for CVA risk for its counter­
parties in accordance with Article 383 shall calculate a portfolio own funds requirements for CVA risk for
each counterparty in accordance with the following formula, taking into account CVA hedges that are
eligible in accordance with Article 386:
K
¼
2:33 ·p h ·
v ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi
ffi0 ffiffi: ffi5
ffiffiffi
ffi·
ffi
ffiffiw
ffiffii ffi
ffiffi· ffiffiffiffiffiffiM
ffiffiffiffi iffi
ffiffi·
ffi
ffiE ffiffiA ffiffiffiD ffiffiffiffit
i ffi
o ffit ffia ffiffil ffiffi–
ffiffi
ffiffiM
ffiffiffiffi
h
i
ffie ffid ffiffig ffie
ffi
B
ffiffiffi iffiffiffiffiffi
ffiffi–
ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi
ffiffiw
ffiffiffi iffinffidffiffi
ffi·
ffi
ffiffiM
ffiffiffiffi inffiffidffi
ffiffi·
ffi
ffiB
ffiffiffi iffinffidffiffiffiffiffiffi
2
ffiffi ffiþffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi
ffi0 ffiffi: ffi7 ffiffiffi5
ffiffiffi
ffi·
ffi
ffiw
ffiffiffi
2
iffi ffi
ffiffi·
ffiffiffiffi
M
ffiffiffiffi ffii
ffiffi·
ffi
ffiE ffiffiffiA ffiffiffiD ffiffiffit
i ffi
o ffiffit ffia ffil
ffi
ffi–
ffiffi
ffiffiM
ffiffiffiffi
h
iffi
e ffid ffiffig ffie
ffi
ffiB
ffiffi iffiffiffiffi
2
ffiffi
ffiffiffi u u 8 Xi 8 9 Xind 9 Xi Ê Ì
t>>: >>: >>; >>;
where:
h = the one-year risk horizon (in units of a year); h = 1;
w
i
= the weight applicable to counterparty "i".
Counterparty "i" shall be mapped to one of the six weights wi based on an external credit
assessment by a nominated ECAI, as set out in Table 1. For a counterparty for which a credit
assessment by a nominated ECAI is not available:
(a) an institution using the approach in Title II, Chapter 3 shall map the internal rating of the
counterparty to one of the external credit assessment;
(b) an institution using the approach in Title II, Chapter 2 shall assign wi=1.0 % to this
counterparty. However, if an institution uses Article 128 to risk weight counterparty
credit risk exposures to this counterparty, wi=3.0 % shall be assigned;
EADt
i
otal = the total counterparty credit risk exposure value of counterparty "i" (summed across its
netting sets) including the effect of collateral in accordance with the methods set out in
Sections 3 to 6 of Title II, Chapter 6 as applicable to the calculation of the own funds
requirements for counterparty credit risk for that counterparty. An institution using one of
the methods set out in Sections 3 and 4 of Title II, Chapter 6, may use as EADitotal the fully
adjusted exposure value in accordance with Article 223(5).
For an institution not using the method set out in Section 6 of Title II, Chapter 6, the
exposure shall be discounted by applying the following factor:
1 – e –0:05 · M i
0:05 · M
i
B
i
= the notional of purchased single name credit default swap hedges (summed if more than one
position) referencing counterparty "i" and used to hedge CVA risk.
That notional amount shall be discounted by applying the following factor:
1 – e –0:05 · M h i edge
0:05 · M h
i
edge
B
ind
= is the full notional of one or more index credit default swap of purchased protection used to
hedge CVA risk.
L 176/228 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
That notional amount shall be discounted by Article 385
applying the following factor:
Alternative to using CVA methods to calculating own
funds requirements
1 – e– 0:05 · M ind
As an alternative to Article 384, for instruments referred to in
0:05 · M
ind Article 382 and subject to the prior consent of the competent
authority, institutions using the Original Exposure Method as
laid down in Article 275, may apply a multiplication factor of
w
i nd
= is the weight applicable to index hedges.
10 to the resulting risk-weighted exposure amounts for
counterparty credit risk for those exposures instead of calcu­
An institution shall determine w i nd by calculating lating own funds requirements for CVA risk.
a weighted average of wi that are applicable to
the individual constituents of the index;
Article 386
M
i
= the effective maturity of the transactions with Eligible hedges
counterparty i.
1. Hedges shall be 'eligible hedges' for the purposes of the
calculation of own funds requirements for CVA risk in
For an institution using the method set out in
accordance with Articles 383 and 384 only where they are
Section 6 of Title II, Chapter 6, M
i
shall be
used for the purpose of mitigating CVA risk and managed as
calculated in accordance with Article 162(2)(g).
such, and are one of the following:
However, for that purpose, M
i
shall not be
capped at five years but at the longest contractual
remaining maturity in the netting set. (a) single-name credit default swaps or other equivalent hedging
instruments referencing the counterparty directly;
For an institution not using the method set out in
Section 6 of Title II, Chapter 6, M
i
is the average (b) index credit default swaps, provided that the basis between
notional weighted maturity as referred to in point any individual counterparty spread and the spreads of index
(b) of Article 162(2). However, for that purpose, credit default swap hedges is reflected, to the satisfaction of
M
i
shall not be capped at five years but at the the competent authority, in the Value-at-Risk.
longest contractual remaining maturity in the
netting set.
The requirement in point (b) that the basis between any indi­
vidual counterparty spread and the spreads of index credit
M h i edge = t nh oe
t
iom naa lt u Br ii ty
(t
heo f qut ah ne
t
itih ee sd g Me
ih
ei dn gs
e
tr Bu im ae rn et tow i bth
e
d apef pa lu yl t tosw ca ap
s
eh se d wg hes
e
ri es r ae f ple rc ote xd
y
i in
s
t uh se
e
dV a fl ou re -a tht- eR is sk
p
rs eh adal l oa fl so
a
summed if these are several positions); counterparty.
M
i nd
= the maturity of the index hedge.
For all counterparties for which a proxy is used, an institution
shall use reasonable basis time series out of a representative
In the case of more than one index hedge group of similar names for which a spread is available.
position, M
i nd
is the notional-weighted maturity.
If the basis between any individual counterparty spread and the
2. Where a counterparty is included in an index on which a spreads of index credit default swap hedges is not reflected to
credit default swap used for hedging counterparty credit risk is the satisfaction of the competent authority, then an institution
based, the institution may subtract the notional amount shall reflect only 50 % of the notional amount of index hedges
attributable to that counterparty in accordance with its in the Value-at-Risk.
reference entity weight from the index CDS notional amount
and treat it as a single name hedge (B
i
) of the individual
counterparty with maturity based on the maturity of the index. Over-hedging of the exposures with single name credit default
swaps under the method laid out in Article 383 is not allowed.
Table 1
2. An institution shall not reflect other types of counterparty
Credit quality step Weight w
i
risk hedges in the calculation of the own funds requirements for
CVA risk. In particular, tranched or nth-to-default credit default
1 0,7 % swaps and credit linked notes are not eligible hedges for the
purposes the calculation of the own funds requirements for
2 0,8 %
CVA risk.
3 1,0 %
3. Eligible hedges that are included in the calculation of the
4 2,0 % own funds requirements for CVA risk shall not be included in
the calculation of the own funds requirements for specific risk
5 3,0 %
as set out in Title IV or treated as credit risk mitigation other
than for the counterparty credit risk of the same portfolio of
6 10,0 %
transaction.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/229
PART FOUR (b) the net exposure, in the case of the underwriting of a debt
or an equity instrument;
LARGE EXPOSURES
Article 387
(c) the exposures due to the transactions, agreements and
Subject matter contracts referred to in Articles 299 and 378 to 380 with
the client in question, such exposures being calculated in the
Institutions shall monitor and control their large exposures in
manner laid down in those Articles, for the calculation of
accordance with this Part.
exposure values.
For the purposes of point (b), the net exposure is calculated by
Article 388
deducting those underwriting positions which are subscribed or
Negative Scope sub-underwritten by third parties on the basis of a formal
agreement reduced by the factors set out in Article 345.
This Part shall not apply to investment firms that fulfil the
criteria set out in Article 95(1) or Article 96(1).
For the purposes of point (b), institutions shall set up systems
to monitor and control their underwriting exposures between
the time of the initial commitment and the next business day in
This Part shall not apply to a group on the basis of its the light of the nature of the risks incurred in the markets in
consolidated situation, if that group only includes investment question.
firms referred to in Article 95(1) or Article 96(1) and ancillary
companies and where that group does not include credit insti­
tutions. For the purposes of point (c), Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3 shall
be excluded from the reference in Article 299.
Article 389 4. The overall exposures to individual clients or groups of
connected clients shall be calculated by adding together the
Definition
exposures of the trading book and those of the non-trading
For the purposes of this Part, 'exposures', means any asset or book.
off-balance sheet item referred to in Part Three, Title II, Chapter
2, without applying the risk weights or degrees of risk.
5. The exposures to groups of connected clients shall be
calculated by adding together the exposures to individual
clients in a group.
Article 390
Calculation of the exposure value 6. Exposures shall not include any of the following:
1. Exposures arising from the items referred to in Annex II
shall be calculated in accordance with one of the methods set (a) in the case of foreign exchange transactions, exposures
out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 6. incurred in the ordinary course of settlement during the
two working days following payment;
2. Institutions with a permission to use the Internal Model (b) in the case of transactions for the purchase or sale of
Method in accordance with Article 283 may use the Internal securities, exposures incurred in the ordinary course of
Model Method for calculating the exposure value for repurchase settlement during five working days following payment or
transactions, securities or commodities lending or borrowing delivery of the securities, whichever the earlier;
transactions, margin lending transactions and long settlement
transactions.
(c) in the case of the provision of money transmission
including the execution of payment services, clearing and
settlement in any currency and correspondent banking or
3. The institutions that calculate the own funds requirements financial instruments clearing, settlement and custody
for their trading-book business in accordance with Part Three, services to clients, delayed receipts in funding and other
Title IV, Chapter 2, Article 299 and Part Three, Title V and, as exposures arising from client activity which do not last
appropriate, with Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 5, shall calculate longer than the following business day;
the exposures to individual clients which arise on the trading
book by adding together the following items:
(d) in the case of the provision of money transmission
including the execution of payment services, clearing and
settlement in any currency and correspondent banking,
(a) the positive excess of an institution's long positions over its
intra-day exposures to institutions providing those services;
short positions in all the financial instruments issued by the
client in question, the net position in each of the different
instruments being calculated according to the methods laid (e) exposures deducted from own funds in accordance with
down in Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 2; Articles 36, 56 and 66.
L 176/230 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
7. In order to determine the overall exposure to a client or a Article 394
group of connected clients, in respect of clients to which the
Reporting requirements
institution has exposures through transactions referred to in
points (m) and (o) of Article 112 or through other transactions 1. An institution shall report the following information
where there is an exposure to underlying assets, an institution about every large exposure to the competent authorities,
shall assess its underlying exposures taking into account the including large exposures exempted from the application of
economic substance of the structure of the transaction and Article 395(1):
the risks inherent in the structure of the transaction itself, in
order to determine whether it constitutes an additional
exposure.
(a) the identification of the client or the group of connected
clients to which an institution has a large exposure;
8. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the following:
(b) the exposure value before taking into account the effect of
the credit risk mitigation, when applicable;
(a) the conditions and methodologies used to determine the
overall exposure to a client or a group of connected
(c) where used, the type of funded or unfunded credit
clients in respect of the types of exposures referred to in
protection;
paragraph 7;
(d) the exposure value after taking into account the effect of the
(b) the conditions under which the structure of the transaction
credit risk mitigation calculated for the purpose of
referred to in paragraph 7 does not constitute an additional
Article 395(1).
exposure.
Where an institution is subject to Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
its 20 largest exposures on a consolidated basis, excluding those
the Commission by 1 January 2014.
exempted from the application of Article 395(1) shall be made
available to the competent authorities.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
2. An institution shall report the following information to
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
the competent authorities, in addition to reporting the
No 1093/2010.
information referred to in paragraph 1, in relation to its 10
largest exposures on a consolidated basis to institutions as
well as its 10 largest exposures on a consolidated basis to
Article 391 unregulated financial entities, including large exposures
exempted from the application of Article 395(1):
Definition of an institution for large exposures purposes
For the purposes of calculating the value of exposures in
accordance with this Part the term 'institution' shall include a (a) the identification of the client or the group of connected
private or public undertaking, including its branches, which, clients to which an institution has a large exposure;
were it established in the Union, would fulfil the definition of
the term 'institution' and has been authorised in a third country
that applies prudential supervisory and regulatory requirements (b) the exposure value before taking into account the effect of
at least equivalent to those applied in the Union. the credit risk mitigation, when applicable;
Article 392 (c) where used, the type of funded or unfunded credit
protection;
Definition of a large exposure
An institution's exposure to a client or group of connected
clients shall be considered a large exposure where its value is (d) the exposure value after taking into account the effect of the
equal to or exceeds 10 % of its eligible capital. credit risk mitigation calculated for the purpose of
Article 395(1);
Article 393
(e) the expected run-off of the exposure expressed as the
Capacity to identify and manage large exposures
amount maturing within monthly maturity buckets up to
An institution shall have sound administrative and accounting one year, quarterly maturity buckets up to three years and
procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms for the annually thereafter.
purposes of identifying, managing, monitoring, reporting and
recording all large exposures and subsequent changes to them,
in accordance with this Regulation. 3. Reporting shall be carried out at least twice a year.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/231
4. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards credit risk mitigation in accordance with Articles 399 to 403
to specify the following: as well as the outcomes of developments in the area of shadow
banking and large exposures at the Union and international
levels, issue guidelines by 31 December 2014 to set appropriate
aggregate limits to such exposures or tighter individual limits on
(a) the uniform formats for the reporting referred to in
exposures to shadow banking entities which carry out banking
paragraph 3 which shall be proportionate to the nature,
activities outside a regulated framework.
scale and complexity of institutions' activities and the
instructions for using those formats;
In developing those guidelines, EBA shall consider whether the
(b) the frequencies and dates of the reporting referred to in introduction of additional limits would have a material detri­
paragraph 3; mental impact on the risk profile of institutions established in
the Union, on the provision of credit to the real economy or on
the stability and orderly functioning of financial markets.
(c) the IT solutions to be applied for the reporting referred to
in paragraph 3.
By 31 December 2015 the Commission shall assess the appro­
priateness and the impact of imposing limits on exposures to
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards shadow banking entities which carry out banking activities
to the Commission by 1 January 2014. outside a regulated framework, taking into account Union and
international developments in the area of shadow banking and
large exposures as well as credit risk mitigation in accordance
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ with Articles 399 to 403. The Commission shall submit the
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph report to the European Parliament and the Council, together, if
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) appropriate, with a legislative proposal on exposure limits to
No 1093/2010. shadow banking entities which carry out banking activities
outside a regulated framework.
Article 395
3. Subject to Article 396, an institution shall at all times
Limits to large exposures
comply with the relevant limit laid down in paragraph 1.
1. An institution shall not incur an exposure, after taking
into account the effect of the credit risk mitigation in
accordance with Articles 399 to 403, to a client or group of
connected clients the value of which exceeds 25 % of its eligible 4. Assets constituting claims and other exposures onto
capital. Where that client is an institution or where a group of recognised third-country investment firms may be subject to
connected clients includes one or more institutions, that value the same treatment as set out in paragraph 1.
shall not exceed 25 % of the institution's eligible capital or
EUR 150 million, whichever the higher, provided that the
sum of exposure values, after taking into account the effect of
5. The limits laid down in this Article may be exceeded for
the credit risk mitigation in accordance with Articles 399 to
the exposures on the institution's trading book if the following
403, to all connected clients that are not institutions does not
conditions are met:
exceed 25 % of the institution's eligible capital.
Where the amount of EUR 150 million is higher than 25 % of (a) the exposure on the non-trading book to the client or group
the institution's eligible capital the value of the exposure, after of connected clients in question does not exceed the limit
taking into account the effect of credit risk mitigation in laid down in paragraph 1, this limit being calculated with
accordance with Articles 399 to 403 shall not exceed a reference to eligible capital, so that the excess arises entirely
reasonable limit in terms of the institution's eligible capital. on the trading book;
That limit shall be determined by the institution in accordance
with the policies and procedures referred to in Article 81 of
Directive 2013/36/EU, to address and control concentration
risk. This limit shall not exceed 100 % of the institution's (b) the institution meets an additional own funds requirement
eligible capital. on the excess in respect of the limit laid down in paragraph
1 which is calculated in accordance with Articles 397 and
398;
Competent authorities may set a lower limit than EUR 150
million and shall inform EBA and the Commission thereof.
(c) where 10 days or less have elapsed since the excess
occurred, the trading-book exposure to the client or group
2. EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation of connected clients in question shall not exceed 500 % of
(EU) No 1093/2010, taking into account the effect of the the institution's eligible capital;
L 176/232 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(d) any excesses that have persisted for more than 10 days do 7. Before adopting the specific structural measures as referred
not, in aggregate, exceed 600 % of the institution's eligible to in paragraph 6 relating to large exposures, the competent
capital. authorities shall notify the Council, the Commission, the
competent authorities concerned and EBA at least two
months prior to the publication of the decision to adopt the
structural measures, and submit relevant quantitative or quali­
In each case in which the limit has been exceeded, the insti­ tative evidence of all of the following:
tution shall report the amount of the excess and the name of
the client concerned and, where applicable, the name of the
group of connected clients concerned, without delay to the
competent authorities. (a) the scope of the activities that are subject to the structural
measures;
6. For the purpose of this paragraph, structural measures
mean measures adopted by a Member State and implemented (b) an explanation as to why such draft measures are deemed to
by the relevant competent authorities of that Member State be suitable, effective and proportionate to protect
before the entry into force of a legal act explicitly harmonising depositors;
such measures, that require credit institutions authorised in that
Member State to reduce their exposures to different legal entities
depending on their activities, irrespective of where those
(c) an assessment of the likely positive or negative impact of
activities are located, with a view to protecting depositors and
the measures on the internal market based on information
preserving financial stability.
which is available to the Member State.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article and
8. The power to adopt an implementing act to accept or
Article 400(1)(f), where Member States adopt national laws
reject the proposed national measures referred to in paragraph
requiring structural measures to be taken within a banking
7 is conferred on the Commission acting in accordance with the
group, competent authorities may require the institutions of
procedure referred to in Article 464(2).
the banking group which hold deposits that are covered by a
Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with Directive
94/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of
30 May 1994 on deposit-guarantee schemes ( 1 ) or an equivalent Within one month of receiving the notification referred to in
deposit guarantee scheme in a third country to apply a large paragraph 7, EBA shall provide its opinion on the points
exposure limit below 25 % but not lower than 15 % between mentioned in that paragraph to the Council, the Commission
31 December 2014 and 30 June 2015, and than 10 % from and the Member State concerned. Competent authorities
1 July 2015 on a sub-consolidated basis in accordance with concerned may also provide their opinions on the points
Article 11(5) to intragroup exposures where these exposures mentioned in that paragraph to the Council, the Commission
consist of exposures to an entity that does not belong to the and the Member State concerned.
same subgroup as regards the structural measures.
Taking utmost account of the opinions referred to in the second
For the purpose of this paragraph, the following conditions subparagraph and if there is robust and strong evidence that the
shall be met: measures have a negative impact on the internal market that
outweighs the financial stability benefits, the Commission shall,
within two months of receiving the notification, reject the
proposed national measures. Otherwise, the Commission shall
(a) all entities belonging to a same subgroup as regards the
accept the proposed national measures for an initial period of 2
structural measures are considered as one client or group
years and where appropriate the measures may be subject to
of connected clients;
amendment.
(b) the competent authorities apply a uniform limit to the The Commission shall only reject the proposed national
exposures referred to in the first subparagraph. measures if it considers the proposed national measures entail
disproportionate adverse effects on the whole or parts of the
financial system in other Member States or in the Union as a
whole, thus forming or creating an obstacle to the functioning
Applying this approach shall be without prejudice to effective
of the internal market or to the free movement of capital in
supervision on a consolidated basis and shall not entail dispro­
accordance with the provisions of the TFEU.
portionate adverse effects on the whole or parts of the financial
system in other Member States or in the Union as a whole or
form or create an obstacle to the functioning of the internal
market. The assessment of the Commission shall take account of the
opinion of EBA and shall take into account the evidence
( 1 ) OJ L 135, 31.5.1994, p. 5. presented in accordance with paragraph 7.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/233
Before the expiry of the measures, the competent authorities requirements in Article 299 and Part Three, Title V. The
may propose new measures for the extension of the period of additional own funds requirement shall be equal to the sum
application for an additional period of 2 years each time. In this of the specific-risk requirements in Part Three, Title IV,
case, they shall notify the Commission, the Council, the Chapter 2 and/or the Article 299 and Part Three, Title V
competent authorities concerned and EBA. Approval of the requirements on these components, multiplied by the
new measures shall be subject to the process set out in this corresponding factor in Column 2 of Table 1.
Article. This Article shall be without prejudice to Article 458.
Table 1
Article 396
Column 1: Excess over the limits
Compliance with large exposures requirements Column 2: Factors
(on the basis of a percentage of eligible capital)
1. If, in an exceptional case, exposures exceed the limit set
Up to 40 % 200 %
out in Article 395(1), the institution shall report the value of
the exposure without delay to the competent authorities which From 40 % to 60 % 300 %
may, where the circumstances warrant it, allow the institution a
limited period of time in which to comply with the limit. From 60 % to 80 % 400 %
From 80 % to 100 % 500 %
From 100 % to 250 % 600 %
Where the amount of EUR 150 million referred to in
Article 395(1) is applicable, the competent authorities may Over 250 % 900 %
allow on a case-by-case basis the 100 % limit in terms of the
institution's eligible capital to be exceeded.
Article 398
Procedures to prevent institutions from avoiding the
additional own funds requirement
2. Where compliance by an institution on an individual or
sub-consolidated basis with the obligations imposed in this Part Institutions shall not deliberately avoid the additional own funds
is disapplied under Article 7(1), or the provisions of Article 9 requirements set out in Article 397 that they would otherwise
are applied in the case of parent institutions in a Member State, incur, on exposures exceeding the limit laid down in
measures shall be taken to ensure the satisfactory allocation of Article 395(1) once those exposures have been maintained for
risks within the group. more than 10 days, by means of temporarily transferring the
exposures in question to another company, whether within the
same group or not, and/or by undertaking artificial transactions
to close out the exposure during the 10-day period and create a
new exposure.
Article 397
Calculating additional own funds requirements for large
exposures in the trading book
Institutions shall maintain systems which ensure that any
1. The excess referred to in Article 395(5)(b) shall be
transfer which has the effect referred to in the first
calculated by selecting those components of the total trading
subparagraph is immediately reported to the competent auth­
exposure to the client or group of connected clients in question
orities.
which attract the highest specific-risk requirements in Part
Three, Title IV, Chapter 2 and/or requirements in Article 299
and Part Three, Title V, the sum of which equals the amount of
the excess referred to in point (a) of Article 395(5).
Article 399
Eligible credit mitigation techniques
2. Where the excess has not persisted for more than 10 days, 1. For the purposes of Articles 400 to 403 the term 'guar­
the additional capital requirement shall be 200 % of the antee' shall include credit derivatives recognised under Part
requirements referred to in paragraph 1, on these components. Three, Title II, Chapter 4 other than credit linked notes.
3. As from 10 days after the excess has occurred, the 2. Subject to paragraph 3 of this Article, where, under
components of the excess, selected in accordance with Articles 400 to 403 the recognition of funded or unfunded
paragraph 1, shall be allocated to the appropriate line in credit protection is permitted, this shall be subject to
Column 1 of Table 1 in ascending order of specific-risk compliance with the eligibility requirements and other
requirements in Part Three, Title IV, Chapter 2 and/or requirements set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 4.
L 176/234 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Where an institution relies upon Article 401(2), the recog­ (f) exposures to counterparties referred to in Article 113(6) or
nition of funded credit protection shall be subject to the (7) if they would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part
relevant requirements under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3. Three, Title II, Chapter 2. Exposures that do not meet those
For the purposes of this Part, an institution shall not take criteria, whether or not exempted from Article 395(1) shall
into account the collateral referred to in Article 199(5) to (7), be treated as exposures to a third party;
unless permitted under Article 402.
(g) asset items and other exposures secured by collateral in the
form of cash deposits placed with the lending institution or
4. Institutions shall analyse, to the extent possible, their
with an institution which is the parent undertaking or a
exposures to collateral issuers, providers of unfunded credit
subsidiary of the lending institution;
protection and underlying assets pursuant to Article 390(7)
for possible concentrations and where appropriate take action
and report any significant findings to their competent authority.
(h) asset items and other exposures secured by collateral in the
form of certificates of deposit issued by the lending insti­
tution or by an institution which is the parent undertaking
Article 400 or a subsidiary of the lending institution and lodged with
either of them;
Exemptions
1. The following exposures shall be exempted from the
application of Article 395(1): (i) exposures arising from undrawn credit facilities that are
classified as low-risk off-balance sheet items in Annex I
and provided that an agreement has been concluded with
the client or group of connected clients under which the
(a) asset items constituting claims on central governments, facility may be drawn only if it has been ascertained that it
central banks or public sector entities which, unsecured, will not cause the limit applicable under Article 395(1) to
would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part Three, be exceeded;
Title II, Chapter 2;
(j) trade exposures to central counterparties and default fund
contributions to central counterparties;
(b) asset items constituting claims on international organi­
sations or multilateral development banks which, unsecured,
would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part Three, Title
II, Chapter 2; (k) exposures to deposit guarantee schemes under Directive
94/19/EC arising from the funding of those schemes, if
the member institutions of the scheme have a legal or
contractual obligation to fund the scheme.
(c) asset items constituting claims carrying the explicit guar­
antees of central governments, central banks, international
organisations, multilateral development banks or public
Cash received under a credit linked note issued by the insti­
sector entities, where unsecured claims on the entity
tution and loans and deposits of a counterparty to or with the
providing the guarantee would be assigned a 0 % risk
institution which are subject to an on-balance sheet netting
weight under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2;
agreement recognised under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 4
shall be deemed to fall under point (g).
(d) other exposures attributable to, or guaranteed by, central
governments, central banks, international organisations, 2. Competent authorities may fully or partially exempt the
multilateral development banks or public sector entities, following exposures:
where unsecured claims on the entity to which the
exposure is attributable or by which it is guaranteed
would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part Three,
(a) covered bonds falling within the terms of Article 129(1), (3)
Title II, Chapter 2;
and (6);
(e) asset items constituting claims on regional governments or (b) asset items constituting claims on regional governments or
local authorities of Member States where those claims local authorities of Member States where those claims
would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part Three, would be assigned a 20 % risk weight under Part Three,
Title II, Chapter 2 and other exposures to or guaranteed Title II, Chapter 2 and other exposures to or guaranteed
by those regional governments or local authorities, claims by those regional governments or local authorities, claims
on which would be assigned a 0 % risk weight under Part on which would be assigned a 20 % risk weight under Part
Three, Title II, Chapter 2; Three, Title II, Chapter 2;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/235
(c) exposures, including participations or other kinds of (j) legally required guarantees used when a mortgage loan
holdings, incurred by an institution to its parent under­ financed by issuing mortgage bonds is paid to the
taking, to other subsidiaries of that parent undertaking or mortgage borrower before the final registration of the
to its own subsidiaries, in so far as those undertakings are mortgage in the land register, provided the guarantee is
covered by the supervision on a consolidated basis to which not used as reducing the risk in calculating the risk
the institution itself is subject, in accordance with this Regu­ -weighted exposure amounts;
lation, Directive 2002/87/EC or with equivalent standards in
force in a third country; exposures that do not meet these
criteria, whether or not exempted from Article 395(1), shall
be treated as exposures to a third party; (k) assets items constituting claims on and other exposures to
recognised exchanges.
(d) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures,
including participations or other kinds of holdings, to
3. Competent authorities may only make use of the
regional or central credit institutions with which the credit
exemption provided for in paragraph 2 where the following
institution is associated in a network in accordance with
conditions are met:
legal or statutory provisions and which are responsible,
under those provisions, for cash-clearing operations within
the network;
(a) the specific nature of the exposure, the counterparty or the
relationship between the institution and the counterparty
eliminate or reduce the risk of the exposure; and
(e) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to
credit institutions incurred by credit institutions, one of
which operates on a non-competitive basis and provides
or guarantees loans under legislative programmes or its
statutes, to promote specified sectors of the economy (b) any remaining concentration risk can be addressed by other
under some form of government oversight and restrictions equally effective means such as the arrangements, processes
on the use of the loans, provided that the respective and mechanisms provided for in Article 81 of Directive
exposures arise from such loans that are passed on to the 2013/36/EU.
beneficiaries via credit institutions or from the guarantees of
these loans;
Competent authorities shall inform EBA whether or not they
intend to use any of the exemptions provided for in paragraph
(f) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to 2 in accordance with points (a) and (b) of this paragraph and
institutions, provided that those exposures do not constitute shall consult EBA on this choice.
such institutions' own funds, do not last longer than the
following business day and are not denominated in a major
trading currency;
Article 401
Calculating the effect of the use of credit risk mitigation
(g) asset items constituting claims on central banks in the form techniques
of required minimum reserves held at those central banks
1. For calculating the value of exposures for the purposes of
which are denominated in their national currencies;
Article 395(1) an institution may use the 'fully adjusted
exposure value' as calculated under Part Three, Title II,
Chapter 4 taking into account the credit risk mitigation, vola­
tility adjustments, and any maturity mismatch (E*).
(h) asset items constituting claims on central governments in
the form of statutory liquidity requirements held in
government securities which are denominated and funded
in their national currencies provided that, at the discretion
of the competent authority, the credit assessment of those 2. An institution permitted to use own estimates of LGDs
central governments assigned by a nominated ECAI is and conversion factors for an exposure class under Part Three,
investment grade; Title II, Chapter 3 may, subject to a permission by the
competent authorities recognise the effects of financial collateral
in calculating the value of exposures for the purposes of
Article 395(1).
(i) 50 % of medium/low risk off-balance sheet documentary
credits and of medium/low risk off-balance sheet undrawn
credit facilities referred to in Annex I and subject to the
competent authorities' agreement, 80 % of guarantees Competent authorities shall grant the permission referred to in
other than loan guarantees which have a legal or regulatory preceding subparagraph only if the institution can estimate the
basis and are given for their members by mutual guarantee effects of financial collateral on their exposures separately from
schemes possessing the status of credit institutions; other LGD-relevant aspects.
L 176/236 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
The estimates produced by the institution shall be sufficiently and in particular large indirect credit exposures, for
suitable for reducing the exposure value for the purposes of example to a single issuer of securities taken as collateral.
compliance with the provisions of Article 395.
Article 402
Where an institution is permitted to use its own estimates of
Exposures arising from mortgage lending
the effects of financial collateral, it shall do so on a basis
consistent with the approach adopted in the calculation of the
1. For the calculation of exposure values for the purposes of
own funds requirements in accordance with this Regulation. Article 395, an institution may reduce the value of an exposure
or any part of an exposure fully secured by real estate property
in accordance with Article 125(1) by the pledged amount of the
Institutions permitted to use own estimates of LGDs and
market or mortgage lending value of the property concerned
conversion factors for an exposure class under Part Three,
but not more than 50 % of the market or 60 % of the mortgage
Title II, Chapter 3, which do not calculate the value of their
lending value in those Member States that have laid down
exposures using the method referred to in the first
rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage lending
subparagraph of this paragraph, may use the Financial Collateral
value in statutory or regulatory provisions, if all of the
Comprehensive Method or the approach set out in
following conditions are met:
Article 403(1)(b) for calculating the value of exposures.
(a) the competent authorities of the Member States have not set
3. An institution that makes use of the Financial Collateral
a higher risk weight than 35 % for exposures or parts of
Comprehensive Method or is permitted to use the method
exposures secured by residential real estate in accordance
described in paragraph 2 of this Article in calculating the
with Article 124(2);
value of exposures for the purposes of Article 395(1) shall
conduct periodic stress tests of their credit-risk concentrations,
including in relation to the realisable value of any collateral
(b) the exposure or part of the exposure is fully secured by:
taken.
(i) mortgages on residential property; or
These periodic stress tests referred to in the first subparagraph
shall address risks arising from potential changes in market
conditions that could adversely impact the institutions'
(ii) a residential property in a leasing transaction under
adequacy of own funds and risks arising from the realisation
which the lessor retains full ownership of the residential
of collateral in stressed situations.
property and the lessee has not yet exercised his option
to purchase;
The stress tests carried out shall be adequate and appropriate for
the assessment of such risks.
(c) the requirements in Article 208 and Article 229(1) are met.
In the event that the periodic stress test indicates a lower real­
2. For the calculation of exposure values for the purposes of
isable value of collateral taken than would be permitted to be
Article 395, an institution may reduce the value of an exposure
taken into account while making use of the Financial Collateral
or any part of an exposure fully secured by real estate property
Comprehensive Method or the method described in paragraph 2
in accordance with Article 126(1) by the pledged amount of the
as appropriate, the value of collateral permitted to be recognised
market or mortgage lending value of the property concerned
in calculating the value of exposures for the purposes of
but not more than 50 % of the market or 60 % of the mortgage
Article 395(1) shall be reduced accordingly.
lending value in those Member States that have laid down
rigorous criteria for the assessment of the mortgage lending
Institutions referred to in the first subparagraph shall include value in statutory or regulatory provisions, if all of the
the following in their strategies to address concentration risk: following conditions are met:
(a) policies and procedures to address risks arising from (a) the competent authorities of the Member States have not set
maturity mismatches between exposures and any credit a higher risk weight than 50 % for exposures or parts of
protection on those exposures; exposures secured by commercial real estate in accordance
with Article 124(2);
(b) policies and procedures in the event that a stress test
indicates a lower realisable value of collateral than taken (b) the exposure is fully secured by:
into account while making use of the Financial Collateral
Comprehensive Method or the method described in
paragraph 2; (i) mortgages on offices or other commercial premises; or
(c) policies and procedures relating to concentration risk arising (ii) offices or other commercial premises and the exposures
from the application of credit risk mitigation techniques, related to property leasing transactions;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/237
(c) the requirements in Article 126(2)(a), Article 208 and (b) treat the portion of the exposure collateralised by the
Article 229(1) are met; market value of recognised collateral as having been
incurred to the third party rather than to the client, if the
exposure is secured by collateral and provided that the
collateralised portion of the exposure would be assigned
(d) the commercial property is fully constructed.
an equal or lower risk weight than a risk weight of the
unsecured exposure to the client under Part Three, Title II,
Chapter 2.
3. An institution may treat an exposure to a counterparty
that results from a reverse repurchase agreement under which
the institution has purchased from the counterparty non-
accessory independent mortgage liens on immovable property The approach referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph
of third parties as a number of individual exposures to each of shall not be used by an institution where there is a mismatch
those third parties, provided that all of the following conditions between the maturity of the exposure and the maturity of the
are met: protection.
(a) the counterparty is an institution;
For the purpose of this Part, an institution may use both the
Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method and the treatment
set out in point (b) of the first subparagraph only where it is
(b) the exposure is fully secured by liens on the immovable
permitted to use both the Financial Collateral Comprehensive
property of those third parties that have been purchased
Method and the Financial Collateral Simple Method for the
by the institution and the institution is able to exercise
purposes of Article 92.
those liens;
(c) the institution has ensured that the requirements in 2. Where an institution applies point (a) of paragraph 1:
Article 208 and Article 229(1) are met;
(d) the institution becomes beneficiary of the claims that the (a) where the guarantee is denominated in a currency different
counterparty has against the third parties in the event of from that in which the exposure is denominated the
default, insolvency or liquidation of the counterparty; amount of the exposure deemed to be covered shall be
calculated in accordance with the provisions on the
treatment of currency mismatch for unfunded credit
protection set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 4;
(e) the institution reports to the competent authorities in
accordance with Article 394 the total amount of
exposures to each other institution that are treated in
accordance with this paragraph.
(b) a mismatch between the maturity of the exposure and the
maturity of the protection shall be treated in accordance
with the provisions on the treatment of maturity
For these purposes, the institution shall assume that it has an mismatch set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 4;
exposure to each of those third parties for the amount of the
claim that the counterparty has on the third party instead of the
corresponding amount of the exposure to the counterparty. The
remainder of the exposure to the counter party, if any, shall
(c) partial coverage may be recognised in accordance with the
continue to be treated as an exposure to the counter party.
treatment set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 4.
Article 403
PART FIVE
Substitution approach
EXPOSURES TO TRANSFERRED CREDIT RISK
1. Where an exposure to a client is guaranteed by a third
party, or secured by collateral issued by a third party, an insti­ TITLE I
tution may:
GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR THIS PART
Article 404
(a) treat the portion of the exposure which is guaranteed as
Scope of application
having been incurred to the guarantor rather than to the
client provided that the unsecured exposure to the Titles II and III shall apply to new securitisations issued on or
guarantor would be assigned an equal or lower risk after 1 January 2011. Titles II and III shall, after 31 December
weight than a risk weight of the unsecured exposure to 2014, apply to existing securitisations where new underlying
the client under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2; exposures are added or substituted after that date.
L 176/238 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
TITLE II one of its subsidiaries, as an originator or a sponsor, securitises
exposures from several credit institutions, investment firms or
REQUIREMENTS FOR INVESTOR INSTITUTIONS
other financial institutions which are included in the scope of
Article 405 supervision on a consolidated basis, the requirement referred to
in paragraph 1 may be satisfied on the basis of the consolidated
Retained interest of the issuer situation of the related EU parent credit institution, EU financial
holding company, or EU mixed financial holding company.
1. An institution, other than when acting as an originator, a
sponsor or original lender, shall be exposed to the credit risk of
a securitisation position in its trading book or non-trading book
only if the originator, sponsor or original lender has explicitly The first subparagraph shall apply only where credit institutions,
disclosed to the institution that it will retain, on an ongoing investment firms or financial institutions which created the
basis, a material net economic interest which, in any event, shall securitised exposures have committed themselves to adhere to
not be less than 5 %. the requirements set out in Article 408 and deliver, in a timely
manner, to the originator or sponsor and to the EU parent
credit institution, EU financial holding company or EU mixed
financial holding company the information needed to satisfy the
Only any of the following qualifies as retention of a material net
requirements referred to in Article 409.
economic interest of not less than 5 %:
3. Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the securitised
(a) retention of no less than 5 % of the nominal value of each
exposures are exposures on or fully, unconditionally and
of the tranches sold or transferred to the investors;
irrevocably guaranteed by the following entities:
(b) in the case of securitisations of revolving exposures,
(a) central governments or central banks;
retention of the originator's interest of no less than 5 %
of the nominal value of the securitised exposures;
(b) regional governments, local authorities and public sector
entities of Member States;
(c) retention of randomly selected exposures, equivalent to no
less than 5 % of the nominal value of the securitised
exposures, where such exposures would otherwise have
been securitised in the securitisation, provided that the (c) institutions to which a 50 % risk weight or less is assigned
number of potentially securitised exposures is no less than under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2;
100 at origination;
(d) multilateral development banks.
(d) retention of the first loss tranche and, if necessary, other
tranches having the same or a more severe risk profile than
those transferred or sold to investors and not maturing any
4. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to transactions based on a
earlier than those transferred or sold to investors, so that
clear, transparent and accessible index, where the underlying
the retention equals in total no less than 5 % of the nominal
reference entities are identical to those that make up an index
value of the securitised exposures;
of entities that is widely traded, or are other tradable securities
other than securitisation positions.
(e) retention of a first loss exposure not less than 5 % of every
securitised exposure in the securitisation.
Article 406
Due diligence
Net economic interest is measured at the origination and shall
1. Before becoming exposed to the risks of a securitisation,
be maintained on an ongoing basis. The net economic interest,
and as appropriate thereafter, institutions shall be able to
including retained positions, interest or exposures, shall not be
demonstrate to the competent authorities for each of their
subject to any credit risk mitigation or any short positions or
individual securitisation positions, that they have a compre­
any other hedge and shall not be sold. The net economic
hensive and thorough understanding of and have implemented
interest shall be determined by the notional value for off-
formal policies and procedures appropriate to their trading
balance sheet items.
book and non-trading book and commensurate with the risk
profile of their investments in securitised positions for analysing
and recording:
There shall be no multiple applications of the retention
requirements for any given securitisation.
(a) information disclosed under Article 405(1), by originators,
sponsors or original lenders to specify the net economic
2. Where an EU parent credit institution, an EU financial interest that they maintain, on an ongoing basis, in the
holding company, an EU mixed financial holding company or securitisation;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/239
(b) the risk characteristics of the individual securitisation Article 407
position;
Additional risk weight
Where an institution does not meet the requirements in
(c) the risk characteristics of the exposures underlying the secu­
Article 405, 406 or 409 in any material respect by reason of
ritisation position;
the negligence or omission of the institution, the competent
authorities shall impose a proportionate additional risk weight
(d) the reputation and loss experience in earlier securitisations of no less than 250 % of the risk weight (capped at 1 250 %)
of the originators or sponsors in the relevant exposure which shall apply to the relevant securitisation positions in the
classes underlying the securitisation position; manner specified in Article 245(6) or Article 337(3) respect­
ively. The additional risk weight shall progressively increase with
each subsequent infringement of the due diligence provisions.
(e) the statements and disclosures made by the originators or
sponsors, or their agents or advisors, about their due
diligence on the securitised exposures and, where applicable,
on the quality of the collateral supporting the securitised The competent authorities shall take into account the
exposures; exemptions for certain securitisations provided in Article 405(3)
by reducing the risk weight it would otherwise impose under
this Article in respect of a securitisation to which Article 405(3)
(f) where applicable, the methodologies and concepts on which
applies.
the valuation of collateral supporting the securitised
exposures is based and the policies adopted by the orig­
inator or sponsor to ensure the independence of the valuer;
TITLE III
(g) all the structural features of the securitisation that can
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPONSOR AND ORIGINATOR
materially impact the performance of the institution's secu­
INSTITUTIONS
ritisation position, such as the contractual waterfall and
waterfall related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity Article 408
enhancements, market value triggers, and deal-specific defi­
Criteria for credit granting
nitions of default.
Sponsor and originator institutions shall apply the same sound
and well-defined criteria for credit-granting in accordance with
Institutions shall regularly perform their own stress tests appro­
the requirements of Article 79 of Directive 2013/36/EU to
priate to their securitisation positions. To this end, institutions
exposures to be securitised as they apply to exposures to be
may rely on financial models developed by an ECAI provided
held in their own non-trading book. To this end the same
that institutions can demonstrate, when requested, that they
processes for approving and, where relevant, amending,
took due care prior to investing to validate the relevant
renewing and re-financing credits shall be applied by the orig­
assumptions in and structuring of the models and to understand
inator and sponsor institutions.
methodology, assumptions and results.
2. Institutions, other than when acting as originators or
Where the requirements referred to in the first subparagraph of
sponsors or original lenders, shall establish formal procedures
this Article are not met, Article 245(1) shall not be applied by
appropriate to their trading book and non-trading book and
an originator institution and that originator institution shall not
commensurate with the risk profile of their investments in
be allowed to exclude the securitised exposures from the calcu­
securitised positions to monitor on an ongoing basis and in a
lation of its capital requirements under this Regulation.
timely manner performance information on the exposures
underlying their securitisation positions. Where relevant, this
shall include the exposure type, the percentage of loans more
than 30, 60 and 90 days past due, default rates, prepayment
Article 409
rates, loans in foreclosure, collateral type and occupancy, and
frequency distribution of credit scores or other measures of Disclosure to investors
credit worthiness across underlying exposures, industry and
Institutions acting as an originator, a sponsor or original lender
geographical diversification, frequency distribution of loan to
shall disclose to investors the level of their commitment under
value ratios with band widths that facilitate adequate sensitivity
Article 405 to maintain a net economic interest in the securiti­
analysis. Where the underlying exposures are themselves secu­
sation. Sponsor and originator institutions shall ensure that
ritisation positions, institutions shall have the information set
prospective investors have readily available access to all
out in this subparagraph not only on the underlying securiti­
materially relevant data on the credit quality and performance
sation tranches, such as the issuer name and credit quality, but
of the individual underlying exposures, cash flows and collateral
also on the characteristics and performance of the pools
supporting a securitisation exposure as well as such information
underlying those securitisation tranches.
that is necessary to conduct comprehensive and well informed
stress tests on the cash flows and collateral values supporting
Institutions shall also apply the same standards of analysis to the underlying exposures. For that purpose, materially relevant
participations or underwritings in securitisation issues purchased data shall be determined as at the date of the securitisation and
from third parties whether such participations or underwritings where appropriate due to the nature of the securitisation there­
are to be held on their trading or non-trading book. after.
L 176/240 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 410 (a) a credit institution;
Uniform condition of application
(b) an investment firm;
1. EBA shall report to the Commission annually on measures
taken by the competent authorities in order to ensure the
compliance with the requirements of Titles II and III by insti­
(c) an SSPE;
tutions.
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to (d) a CIU;
specify in greater detail:
(e) a non-open ended investment scheme;
(a) the requirements in Articles 405 and 406 applying to insti­
tutions becoming exposed to the risk of a securitisation;
(f) an insurance undertaking;
(b) the retention requirement, including the qualifying criteria
for retaining a material net economic interest as referred to
(g) a financial holding company or mixed-financial holding
in Article 405 and the level of retention;
company.
(c) the due diligence requirements in Article 406 for insti­
tutions becoming exposed to a securitisation position; and (2) 'retail deposit' means a liability to a natural person or to an
SME, where the natural person or the SME would qualify for
the retail exposure class under the Standardised or IRB
(d) the requirements in Articles 408 and 409 applying to
approaches for credit risk, or a liability to a company
sponsor and originator institutions.
which is eligible for the treatment set out in Article 153(4)
and where the aggregate deposits by all such enterprises on
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to a group basis do not exceed EUR 1 million.
the Commission by 1 January 2014.
Article 412
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in Liquidity coverage requirement
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation
1. Institutions shall hold liquid assets, the sum of the values
(EU)No 1093/2010.
of which covers the liquidity outflows less the liquidity inflows
under stressed conditions so as to ensure that institutions
3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards maintain levels of liquidity buffers which are adequate to face
to facilitate the convergence of supervisory practices with regard any possible imbalance between liquidity inflows and outflows
to the implementation of Article 407, including the measures to under gravely stressed conditions over a period of thirty days.
be taken in the case of breach of the due diligence and risk During times of stress, institutions may use their liquid assets to
management obligations. cover their net liquidity outflows.
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
2. Institutions shall not count double liquidity inflows and
to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
liquid assets.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph 3. Institutions may use the liquid assets referred to in
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) paragraph 1 to meet their obligations under stressed circum­
No 1093/2010. stances as specified under Article 414.
PART SIX 4. The provisions set out in Title II shall apply exclusively for
the purposes of specifying reporting obligations set out in
LIQUIDITY
Article 415.
TITLE I
DEFINITIONS AND LIQUIDITY COVERAGE REQUIREMENT 5. Member States may maintain or introduce national
provisions in the area of liquidity requirements before binding
Article 411
minimum standards for liquidity coverage requirements are
Definitions specified and fully introduced in the Union in accordance
with Article 460. Member States or competent authorities
For the purposes of this Part, the following definitions apply:
may require domestically authorised institutions, or a subset
of those institutions, to maintain a higher liquidity coverage
(1) 'financial customer' means a customer that performs one or requirement up to 100 % until the binding minimum
more of the activities listed in Annex I to Directive standard is fully introduced at a rate of 100 % in accordance
2013/36/EU as its main business, or is one of the following: with Article 460.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/241
Article 413 referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of Article 416(1) have been
obtained against collateral that does not qualify under points (a),
Stable Funding
(b) and (c) of Article 416(1) have been properly unwound.
1. Institutions shall ensure that long term obligations are
adequately met with a diversity of stable funding instruments
under both normal and stressed conditions.
2. An institution shall report separately to the competent
authorities of the home Member State the items referred to in
paragraph 1 in the currency below when it has:
2. The provisions set out in Title III shall apply exclusively
for the purposes of specifying reporting obligations set out in
Article 415.
(a) aggregate liabilities in a currency different from the
reporting currency under paragraph 1 amounting to or
3. Member States may maintain or introduce national exceeding 5 % of the institution's or the single liquidity
provisions in the area of stable funding requirements before sub-group's total liabilities; or
binding minimum standards for net stable funding requirements
are specified and introduced in the Union in accordance with
Article 510.
(b) a significant branch in accordance with Article 51 of
Directive 2013/36/EU in a host Member State using a
currency different from the reporting currency under
Article 414
paragraph 1 of this Article.
Compliance with liquidity requirements
Where an institution does not meet, or expects not to meet the
requirement set out in Article 412 or the general obligation set 3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
out in Article 413(1), including during times of stress, it shall to specify the following:
immediately notify the competent authorities and shall submit
without undue delay to the competent authorities a plan for the
timely restoration of compliance with Article 412 or
Article 413(1). Until compliance has been restored, the insti­ (a) uniform formats and IT solutions with associated
tution shall report the items referred to in Title II or Title III, as instructions for frequencies and reference and remittance
appropriate, daily by the end of each business day unless the dates. The reporting formats and frequencies shall be
competent authority authorises a lower reporting frequency and proportionate to the nature, scale and complexity of the
a longer reporting delay. Competent authorities shall only grant different activities of the institutions and shall comprise
such authorisations based on the individual situation of an the reporting required in accordance with paragraphs 1
institution and taking into account the scale and complexity and 2;
of the institution's activities. They shall monitor the implemen­
tation of the restoration plan and shall require a more speedy
restoration if appropriate.
(b) additional liquidity monitoring metrics required, to allow
competent authorities to obtain a comprehensive view of
the liquidity risk profile, proportionate to the nature, scale
TITLE II
and complexity of an institution's activities.
LIQUIDITY REPORTING
Article 415
Reporting obligation and reporting format EBA shall submit to the Commission those draft implementing
technical standards for the items specified in point (a) by
1. Institutions shall report in a single currency, regardless of
1 February 2015 and for the items specified in point (b) by
their actual denomination, to the competent authorities the
1 January 2014.
items referred to in Titles II and III and their components,
including the composition of their liquid assets in accordance
with Article 416. Until the liquidity coverage requirement in
Part Six is fully specified and implemented as a minimum
Until the full introduction of binding liquidity requirements,
standard in accordance with Article 460, institutions shall
competent authorities may continue to collect information
report the items set in Title II and Annex III. Institutions shall
through monitoring tools for the purpose of monitoring
report the items in Title III. The reporting frequency shall not be
compliance with existing national liquidity standards.
less than monthly for items referred to in Title II and Annex III
and not less than quarterly for items referred to in Title III.
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
The reporting formats shall include all the necessary menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
information and shall allow EBA to assess whether secured in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
lending and collateral swap transactions where liquid assets No 1093/2010.
L 176/242 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. The competent authorities of the home Member State (c) transferable assets representing claims on or guaranteed by:
shall upon request provide in a timely manner and by electronic
means the competent authorities and the central bank of the
host Member States and EBA with the individual reporting in
accordance with this Article. (i) the central government of a Member State, a region
with fiscal autonomy to raise and collect taxes, or of
a third country in the domestic currency of the central
5. Competent authorities that exercise supervision on a or regional government, if the institution incurs a
consolidated basis in accordance with Article 112 of Directive liquidity risk in that Member State or third country
2013/36/EU shall upon request provide in a timely manner and that it covers by holding those liquid assets;
by electronic means the following authorities with all reporting
submitted by the institution in accordance with the uniform
reporting formats referred to in paragraph 3:
(ii) central banks and non-central government public sector
entities in the domestic currency of the central bank
(a) the competent authorities and the national central bank of and the public sector entity;
the host Member States in which there are significant
branches in accordance with Article 51 of Directive
2013/36/EU of the parent institution or institutions
controlled by the same parent financial holding company; (iii) the Bank for International Settlements, the International
Monetary Fund, the Commission and multilateral devel­
opment banks;
(b) the competent authorities that have authorised subsidiaries
of the parent institution or institutions controlled by the
same parent financial holding company and the central
bank of the same Member State; (iv) the European Financial Stability Facility and the
European Stability Mechanism;
(c) EBA;
(d) transferable assets that are of high liquidity and credit
quality;
(d) ECB.
6. The competent authorities that have authorised an insti­
(e) standby credit facilities granted by central banks within the
tution that is a subsidiary of a parent institution or parent
scope of monetary policy to the extent that these facilities
financial holding company shall upon request provide in a
are not collateralised by liquid assets and excluding
timely manner and by electronic means the competent auth­
emergency liquidity assistance;
orities that exercise supervision on a consolidated basis in
accordance with Article 111 of Directive 2013/36/EU, the
central bank of the Member State where the institution is auth­
orised and EBA all reporting submitted by the institution in
accordance with the uniform reporting formats referred to in (f) if the credit institution belongs to a network in accordance
paragraph 3. with legal or statutory provisions, the legal or statutory
minimum deposits with the central credit institution and
other statutory or contractually available liquid funding
from the central credit institution or institutions that are
Article 416
members of the network referred to in Article 113(7), or
Reporting on liquid assets eligible for the waiver provided in Article 10, to the extent
that this funding is not collateralised by liquid assets.
1. Institutions shall report the following as liquid assets
unless excluded by paragraph 2 and only if the liquid assets
fulfil the conditions in paragraph 3:
Pending specification of a uniform definition in accordance with
Article 460 of high and extremely high liquidity and credit
(a) cash and exposures to central banks to the extent that these quality, institutions shall identify themselves in a given
exposures can be withdrawn at any time in times of stress. currency transferable assets that are respectively of high or
As regards deposits held with central banks, the competent extremely high liquidity and credit quality. Pending specification
authority and the central bank shall aim at reaching a of a uniform definition, competent authorities may, taking into
common understanding regarding the extent to which account the criteria listed in Article 509(3), (4) and (5) provide
minimum reserves can be withdrawn in times of stress; general guidance that institutions shall follow in identifying
assets of high and extremely high liquidity and credit quality.
In the absence of such guidance, institutions shall use trans­
(b) other transferable assets that are of extremely high liquidity parent and objective criteria to this end, including some or all
and credit quality; of the criteria listed in Article 509(3), (4) and (5).
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/243
2. The following shall not be considered liquid assets: (b) they are not issued by the institution itself or its parent or
subsidiary institutions or another subsidiary of its parent
institutions or parent financial holding company;
(a) assets that are issued by a credit institution unless they fulfil
one of the following conditions:
(c) their price is generally agreed upon by markets participants
and can easily be observed in the market, or their price can
(i) they are bonds eligible for the treatment set out in
be determined by a formula that is easy to calculate based
Article 129(4) or (5) or asset backed instruments if
on publicly available inputs and does not depend on strong
demonstrated to be of the highest credit quality as
assumptions as is typically the case for structured or exotic
established by EBA pursuant to the criteria in
products;
Article 509 (3), (4) and (5);
(ii) they are bonds as referred to in Article 52(4) of
(d) they are eligible collateral for standard liquidity operations
Directive 2009/65/EC other than those referred to in
of a central bank in a Member State or if the liquid assets
point (i) of this point;
are held to meet liquidity outflows in the currency of a third
country, of the central bank of that third country;
(iii) the credit institution has been set up by a Member State
central or regional government and that government
has an obligation to protect the economic basis of (e) they are listed on a recognised exchange or they are tradable
the institution and maintain its viability throughout on active outright sale or via a simple repurchase agreement
its lifetime; or the asset is explicitly guaranteed by on approved repurchase markets. These criteria shall be
that government; or at least 90 % of the loans assessed separately for each market.
granted by the institution are directly or indirectly guar­
anteed by that government and the asset is predomi­
nantly used to fund promotional loans granted on a
The conditions referred to in points (c), (d) and (e) of the first
non-competitive, not for profit basis in order to
subparagraph shall not apply to the assets referred to in point
promote that government's public policy objectives;
(e) of paragraph 1.
(b) assets that are provided as collateral to the institution under
reverse repo and securities financing transactions and that The condition referred to in point (d) of the first subparagraph
are held by the institution only as a credit risk mitigant and shall not apply in the case of liquid assets held to meet liquidity
that are not legally and contractually available for use by the outflows in a currency in which there is an extremely narrow
institution; definition of central bank eligibility. In the case of liquid assets
denominated in currencies of third countries, this exception
shall apply and only apply if the competent authorities of the
(c) assets issued by any of the following:
third country apply the same or an equivalent exception.
(i) an investment firm;
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3,
pending the specification of a binding liquidity requirement in
(ii) an insurance undertaking; accordance with Article 460 and in accordance with the second
subparagraph of paragraph 1 of this Article, institutions shall
report on:
(iii) a financial holding company;
(a) other non-central bank eligible but tradable assets such as
(iv) a mixed financial holding company;
equities and gold based on transparent and objective criteria,
including some or all of the criteria listed in Article 509(3),
(4) and (5);
(v) any other entity that performs one or more of the
activities listed in Annex I to Directive 2013/36/EU as
its main business.
(b) other central bank eligible and tradable assets such as asset
backed instruments of the highest credit quality as estab­
3. In accordance with paragraph 1, institutions shall report
lished by EBA pursuant to the criteria in Article 509(3), (4)
assets that fulfil the following conditions as liquid assets:
and (5);
(a) they are unencumbered or stand available within collateral
pools to be used for the obtaining of additional funding (c) other central bank eligible but non-tradable assets such as
under committed but not yet funded credit lines available credit claims as established by EBA pursuant to the criteria
to the institution; in Article 509(3), (4) and (5).
L 176/244 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards (a) they are appropriately diversified. Diversification is not
listing the currencies which meet the conditions referred to in required in terms of assets corresponding to points (a), (b)
the third subparagraph of paragraph 3. and (c) of Article 416(1);
(b) they are legally and practically readily available at any time
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards during the next 30 days to be liquidated via outright sale or
to the Commission by 31 March 2014. via a simple repurchase agreement on approved repurchase
markets in order to meet obligations coming due. Liquid
assets referred to in point (c) of Article 416(1) which are
held in third countries where there are transfer restrictions
or which are denominated in non-convertible currencies
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
shall be considered available only to the extent that they
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
correspond to outflows in the third country or currency in
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
question, unless the institution can demonstrate to the
No 1093/2010.
competent authorities that it has appropriately hedged the
ensuing currency risk;
Before the entry into force of the technical standards referred to
(c) the liquid assets are controlled by a liquidity management
in the third subparagraph, institutions may continue to apply
function;
the treatment set out in the second subparagraph of paragraph
3, where the competent authorities have applied that treatment
before 1 January 2014.
(d) a portion of the liquid assets except those referred to in
points (a), (c) and (e) of Article 416(1) is periodically and
at least annually liquidated via outright sale or via simple
repurchase agreements on an approved repurchase market
6. Shares or units in CIUs may be treated as liquid assets up
for the following purposes:
to an absolute amount of EUR 500 million in the portfolio of
liquid assets of each institution provided that the requirements
in Article 132(3) are met and that the CIU, apart from
(i) to test the access to the market for these assets;
derivatives to mitigate interest rate or credit or currency risk,
only invests in liquid assets as referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Article.
(ii) to test the effectiveness of its processes for the liqui­
dation of assets;
The use or potential use by a CIU of derivative instruments to
(iii) to test the usability of the assets;
hedge risks of permitted investments shall not prevent that CIU
from being eligible. Where the value of the shares or units of
the CIU is not regularly marked to market by the third parties
referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 418(4) and the (iv) to minimise the risk of negative signalling during a
competent authority is not satisfied that an institution has period of stress;
developed robust methodologies and processes for such
valuation as referred to in the first sentence of Article 418(4),
shares or units in that CIU shall not be treated as liquid assets. (e) price risks associated with the assets may be hedged but the
liquid assets are subject to appropriate internal arrangements
that ensure that they are readily available to the treasury
when needed and especially that they are not used in other
ongoing operations, including:
7. Where a liquid asset ceases to be eligible in the stock of
liquid assets, an institution may nevertheless continue to
consider it a liquid asset for an additional period of 30
calendar days. Where a liquid asset in a CIU ceases to be (i) hedging or other trading strategies;
eligible for the treatment set out in paragraph 6, the shares
or units in the CIU may nevertheless be considered a liquid
asset for an additional period of 30 days provided that those (ii) providing credit enhancements in structured trans­
assets do not exceed 10 % of the CIU's overall assets. actions;
(iii) covering operational costs.
Article 417
Operational requirements for holdings of liquid assets
(f) the denomination of the liquid assets is consistent with the
The institution shall only report as liquid assets those holdings distribution by currency of liquidity outflows after the
of liquid assets that meet the following conditions: deduction of inflows.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/245
Article 418 The correctness of the calculations by the depository institution
or the CIU management company shall be confirmed by an
Valuation of liquid assets
external auditor.
1. The value of a liquid asset to be reported shall be its
market value, subject to appropriate haircuts that reflect at
least the duration, the credit and liquidity risk and typical
Article 419
repo haircuts in periods of general market stress. The haircuts
shall not be less than 15 % for the assets referred to in point (d)
Currencies with constraints on the availability of liquid
of Article 416(1). If the institution hedges the price risk
assets
associated with an asset, it shall take into account the cash
flow resulting from the potential close-out of the hedge. 1. EBA shall assess the availability for institutions of the
liquid assets referred to in point (b) of Article 416(1) in the
currencies that are relevant for institutions established in the
2. Shares or units in CIUs as referred to in Article 416(6) Union.
shall be subject to haircuts, looking through to the underlying
assets as follows:
2. Where the justified needs for liquid assets in light of the
requirement in Article 412 are exceeding the availability of
(a) 0 % for the assets referred to in point (a) of Article 416(1);
those liquid assets in a currency, one or more of the
following derogations shall apply:
(b) 5 % for the assets referred to in points (b) and (c) of
Article 416(1);
(a) by way of derogation from point (f) of Article 417, the
denomination of the liquid assets may be inconsistent
(c) 20 % for the assets referred to in point (d) of Article 416(1). with the distribution by currency of liquidity outflows
after the deduction of inflows;
3. The look-through approach referred to in paragraph 2
shall be applied as follows:
(b) for currencies of a Member State or third countries, required
liquid assets may be substituted by credit lines from the
(a) where the institution is aware of the underlying exposures central bank of that Member State or third country, which
of a CIU, it may look through to those underlying are contractually irrevocably committed for the next 30
exposures in order to assign them to points (a) to (d) of days and are fairly priced, independent of the amount
Article 416(1); currently drawn, provided that the competent authorities
of that Member State or third country do the same and
that Member State or third country has comparable
(b) where the institution is not aware of the underlying reporting requirements in place.
exposures of a CIU, it shall be assumed that the CIU
invests, to the maximum extent allowed under its
mandate, in descending order in the asset types referred
3. The derogations applied in accordance with paragraph 2
to in points (a) to (d) of Article 416(1) until the
shall be inversely proportional to the availability of the relevant
maximum total investment limit is reached.
assets. The justified needs of institutions shall be assessed taking
into account their ability to reduce, by sound liquidity
management, the need for those liquid assets and the
4. Institutions shall develop robust methodologies and
holdings of those assets by other market participants.
processes to calculate and report the market value and
haircuts for shares or units in CIUs. Only where they can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the competent authority
that the materiality of the exposure does not justify the devel­
4. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
opment of their own methodologies, institutions may rely on
listing the currencies which meet the conditions set out in this
the following third parties to calculate and report the haircuts
Article.
for shares or units in CIUs, in accordance with the methods set
out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 3:
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
(a) the depository institution of the CIU provided that the CIU to the Commission by 31 March 2014.
exclusively invests in securities and deposits all securities at
this depository institution;
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
(b) for other CIUs, the CIU management company, provided menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
that the CIU management company meets the criteria set in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
out in Article 132(3)(a). No 1093/2010.
L 176/246 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to For this assessment, institutions shall take particular account of
specify the derogations referred to in paragraph 2 including the material reputational damage that could result from not
conditions of their application. providing liquidity support to such products or services. Insti­
tutions shall report not less than annually to the competent
authorities those products and services for which the likelihood
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to and potential volume of the liquidity outflows referred to in the
the Commission by 31 March 2014. first subparagraph are material and the competent authorities
shall determine the outflows to be assigned. The competent
authorities may apply an outflow rate up to 5 % for trade
finance off-balance sheet related products, as referred to in
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
Article 429 and Annex I.
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
The competent authorities shall at least annually report to EBA
the types of products or services for which they have
Article 420
determined outflows on the basis of the reports from institu­
tions. They shall in that report also explain the methodology
Liquidity outflows
applied to determine the outflows.
1. Pending the specification of a liquidity requirement in
accordance with Article 460, liquidity outflows to be reported
shall include:
Article 421
Outflows on retail deposits
(a) the current amount outstanding for retail deposits as set out
in Article 421; 1. Institutions shall separately report the amount of retail
deposits covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance
with Directive 94/19/EC or an equivalent deposit guarantee
(b) the current amounts outstanding of other liabilities that scheme in a third country, and multiply by at least 5 %
come due, can be called for payout by the issuing insti­ where the deposit is either of the following:
tutions or by the provider of the funding or entail an
implicit expectation of the provider of the funding that
the institution would repay the liability during the next
30 days as set out in Article 422; (a) part of an established relationship making withdrawal highly
unlikely;
(c) the additional outflows referred to in Article 423;
(b) held in a transactional account, including accounts to which
salaries are regularly credited.
(d) the maximum amount that can be drawn during the next
30 days from undrawn committed credit and liquidity facil­
ities, as set out in Article 424;
2. Institutions shall multiply other retail deposits not referred
to in paragraph 1 by at least 10 %.
(e) the additional outflows identified in the assessment in
accordance with paragraph 2.
3. Taking into account the behaviour of local depositors as
2. Institutions shall regularly assess the likelihood and advised by competent authorities, EBA shall issue guidelines by
potential volume of liquidity outflows during the next 30 1 January 2014 on the criteria to determine the conditions of
days as far as products or services are concerned, which are application of paragraphs 1 and 2 in relation to the identifi­
not captured in Articles 422, 423 and 424 and which they cation of retail deposits subject to different outflows and the
offer or sponsor or which potential purchasers would definitions of those products for purposes of this Title. Those
consider to be associated with them, including but not limited guidelines shall take account of the likelihood of these deposits
to liquidity outflows resulting from any contractual to lead to outflows of liquidity during the next 30 days. These
arrangements such as other off-balance sheet and contingent outflows shall be assessed under the assumption of a combined
funding obligations, including, but not limited to committed idiosyncratic and market-wide stress scenario.
funding facilities, un-drawn loans and advances to wholesale
counterparties, mortgages that have been agreed but not yet
drawn down, credit cards, overdrafts, planned outflows related
to renewal or extension of new retail or wholesale loans, 4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, institutions shall
planned derivative payables and trade finance off-balance sheet multiply retail deposits that they have taken in third countries
related products, as referred to in Article 429 and in Annex I. by a higher percentage than provided for in those paragraphs if
These outflows shall be assessed under the assumption of a such percentage is provided by comparable third country
combined idiosyncratic and market-wide stress scenario. reporting requirements.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/247
5. Institutions may exclude from the calculation of outflows 3. Institutions shall multiply liabilities resulting from deposits
certain clearly circumscribed categories of retail deposits as long that have to be maintained:
as in each and every instance the institution rigorously applies
the following for the whole category of those deposits, unless in
individually justified circumstances of hardship for the
depositor: (a) by the depositor in order to obtain clearing, custody or cash
management or other comparable services from the insti­
tution;
(a) within 30 days, the depositor is not allowed to withdraw
the deposit; or
(b) in the context of common task sharing within an institu­
tional protection scheme meeting the requirements of
Article 113(7) or as a legal or statutory minimum deposit
(b) for early withdrawals within 30 days, the depositor has to
by another entity being a Member of the same institutional
pay a penalty that includes the loss of interest between the
protection scheme;
date of withdrawal and the contractual maturity date plus a
material penalty that does not have to exceed the interest
due for the time elapsed between the date of deposit and
the date of withdrawal.
(c) by the depositor in the context of an established operational
relationship other than that mentioned in point (a);
Article 422
Outflows on other liabilities (d) by the depositor to obtain cash clearing and central credit
institution services and where the credit institution belongs
1. Institutions shall multiply liabilities resulting from the
to a network in accordance with legal or statutory provi­
institution's own operating expenses by 0 %.
sions;
2. Institutions shall multiply liabilities resulting from secured
by 5 % in the case of point (a) to the extent to which they are
lending and capital market-driven transactions as defined in
covered by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme in accordance with
point (3) of Article 192 by:
Directive 94/19/EC or an equivalent deposit guarantee scheme
in a third country and by 25 % otherwise.
(a) 0 % up to the value of the liquid assets in accordance with
Article 418 if they are collateralised by assets that would
qualify as liquid assets in accordance with Article 416; Deposits from credit institutions placed at central credit insti­
tutions that are considered as liquid assets in accordance with
Article 416(1)(f) shall be multiplied by 100 % outflow rate.
(b) 100 % over the value of the liquid assets in accordance with
Article 418, if they are collateralized by assets that would
qualify as liquid assets in accordance with Article 416; 4. Clearing, custody or cash management or other
comparable services referred to in points (a) and (d) of
paragraph 3 only covers such services to the extent that they
are rendered in the context of an established relationship on
(c) 100 % if they are collateralized by assets that would not
which the depositor has substantial dependency. They shall not
qualify as liquid assets in accordance with Article 416, with
merely consist in correspondent banking or prime brokerage
the exception of transactions covered by points (d) and (e)
services and the institution shall have evidence that the client
of this paragraph;
is unable to withdraw amounts legally due over a 30 day
horizon without compromising its operational functioning.
(d) 25 % if they are collateralized by assets that would not
qualify as liquid assets in accordance with Article 416 and
Pending a uniform definition of an established operational rela­
the lender is the central government, a public sector entity
tionship as referred to in point (c) of paragraph 3, institutions
of the Member State in which the credit institution has been
shall themselves establish the criteria to identify an established
authorised or has established a branch, or a multilateral
operational relationship for which they have evidence that the
development bank. Public sector entities that receive that
client is unable to withdraw amounts legally due over a 30 day
treatment shall be limited to those that have a risk weight
horizon without compromising their operational functioning
of 20 % or lower in accordance with Chapter 2, Title II of
and shall report these criteria to the competent authorities.
Part Three;
Competent authorities may, in the absence of a uniform defi­
nition, provide general guidance that institutions shall follow in
identifying deposits maintained by the depositor in a context of
(e) 0 % if the lender is a central bank. an established operational relationship.
L 176/248 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. Institutions shall multiply liabilities resulting from deposits conditions for such lower outflows shall be regularly reviewed
by clients that are not financial customers to the extent they do by the competent authorities.
not fall under paragraphs 3 and 4 by 40 % and shall multiply
the amount of these liabilities covered by a Deposit Guarantee
Scheme in accordance with Directive 94/19/EC or an equivalent
Deposit Guarantee Scheme in a third country by 20 %. 10. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
further specify the additional objective criteria referred to in
paragraph 9.
6. Institutions shall take outflows and inflows expected over
the 30 day horizon from the contracts listed in Annex II into
account on a net basis across counterparties and shall multiply
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
them by 100 % in the case of a net outflow. Net basis shall
the Commission by 1 January 2015.
mean also net of collateral to be received that qualifies as liquid
assets under Article 416.
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
7. Institutions shall separately report other liabilities that do
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
not fall under paragraphs 1 to 5.
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
8. Competent authorities may grant the permission to apply
a lower outflow percentage on a case-by-case basis, to the
liabilities referred to in paragraph 7, when all of the following Article 423
conditions are fulfilled:
Additional Outflows
1. Collateral other than assets referred to in Article 416(1)(a),
(a) the depositor is:
(b) and (c), which is posted by the institution for contracts listed
in Annex II and credit derivatives, shall be subject to an
additional outflow of 20 %.
(i) a parent or subsidiary institution of the institution or
another subsidiary of the same parent institution;
2. Institutions shall notify to the competent authorities all
(ii) linked to the institution by a relationship within the
contracts entered into the contractual conditions of which
meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC;
lead, within 30 days following a material deterioration of the
credit quality of the institution, to liquidity outflows or
additional collateral needs. If the competent authorities
(iii) an institution falling within the same institutional
consider such contracts material in relation to the potential
protection scheme meeting the requirements of
liquidity outflows of the institution, they shall require the insti­
Article 113(7);
tution to add an additional outflow for those contracts
corresponding to the additional collateral needs resulting from
a material deterioration in the credit quality of the institution
(iv) the central institution or a member of a network
such as a downgrade in its external credit assessment by three
compliant with Article 400 (2)(d);
notches. The institution shall regularly review the extent of this
material deterioration in light of what is relevant under the
contracts it has entered into and shall notify the result of its
(b) there are reasons to expect a lower outflow over the next
review to the competent authorities.
30 days even under a combined idiosyncratic and market-
wide stress scenario;
3. The institution shall add an additional outflow
(c) a corresponding symmetric or more conservative inflow is
corresponding to collateral needs that would result from the
applied by the depositor by way of derogation from
impact of an adverse market scenario on the institution's
Article 425;
derivatives transactions, financing transactions and other
contracts if material.
(d) the institution and the depositor are established in the same
Member State.
EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
determine the conditions of application in relation to the
9. Competent authorities may waive the conditions set out in notion of materiality and methods for the measurement of
point (d) of paragraph 8 where point (b) of Article 20(1) is this additional outflow.
applied. In that case additional objective criteria as set out in the
delegated act referred to in Article 460 have to be met. Where
such lower outflow is permitted to be applied, the competent
authorities shall inform EBA about the result of the process EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
referred to in point (b) of Article 20(1). The fulfilment of the the Commission by 31 March 2014.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/249
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory 2. The maximum amount that can be drawn of undrawn
technical standards referred to in the second subparagraph in committed credit facilities and undrawn committed liquidity
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) facilities within the next 30 days shall be multiplied by 5 % if
No 1093/2010. they qualify for the retail exposure class under the Standardised
or IRB approaches for credit risk.
4. The institution shall add an additional outflow
corresponding to the market value of securities or other assets 3. The maximum amount that can be drawn of undrawn
sold short and to be delivered within the 30 days horizon committed credit facilities and undrawn committed liquidity
unless the institution owns the securities to be delivered or facilities within the next 30 days shall be multiplied by 10 %
has borrowed them at terms requiring their return only after where they meet the following conditions:
the 30 day horizon and the securities do not form part of the
institutions liquid assets.
(a) they do not qualify for the retail exposure class under the
Standardised or IRB approaches for credit risk;
5. The institution shall add an additional outflow
corresponding to:
(b) they have been provided to clients that are not financial
customers;
(a) the excess collateral the institution holds that can be
contractually called at any time by the counterparty;
(c) they have not been provided for the purpose of replacing
funding of the client in situations where he is unable to
(b) collateral that is due to be returned to a counterparty;
obtain its funding requirements in the financial markets.
(c) collateral that corresponds to assets that would qualify as
4. The committed amount of a liquidity facility that has been
liquid assets for the purposes of Article 416 that can be
provided to an SSPE for the purpose of enabling such an SSPE
substituted for assets corresponding to assets that would not
to purchase assets other than securities from clients that are not
qualify as liquid assets for the purposes of Article 416
financial customers shall be multiplied by 10 % to the extent
without the consent of the institution.
that it exceeds the amount of assets currently purchased from
clients and where the maximum amount that can be drawn is
contractually limited to the amount of assets currently
purchased.
6. Deposits received as collateral shall not be considered
liabilities for the purposes of Article 422 but will be subject
to the provisions of this Article where applicable.
5. The institutions shall report the maximum amount that
can be drawn of other undrawn committed credit facilities and
undrawn committed liquidity facilities within the next 30 days.
Article 424
This applies in particular to the following:
Outflows from credit and liquidity facilities
1. Institutions shall report outflows from committed credit
facilities and committed liquidity facilities, which shall be
(a) liquidity facilities that the institution has granted to SSPEs
determined as a percentage of the maximum amount that can
other than those referred to in point (b) of paragraph 3;
be drawn within the next 30 days. This maximum amount that
can be drawn may be assessed net of any liquidity requirement
that would be mandated under Article 420(2) for the trade
finance off-balance sheet items and net of the value in
(b) arrangements under which the institution is required to buy
accordance with Article 418 of collateral to be provided if
or swap assets from an SSPE;
the institution can reuse the collateral and if the collateral is
held in the form of liquid assets in accordance with Article 416.
The collateral to be provided shall not be assets issued by the
counterparty of the facility or one of its affiliated entities. If the
necessary information is available to the institution, the (c) facilities extended to credit institutions;
maximum amount that can be drawn for credit and liquidity
facilities shall be determined as the maximum amount that
could be drawn given the counterparty's own obligations or
given the pre-defined contractual drawdown schedule coming (d) facilities extended to financial institutions and investment
due over the next 30 days. firms.
L 176/250 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
6. By way of derogation from paragraph 5, institutions By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of this
which have been set up and are sponsored by at least one point, institutions that have received a commitment referred
Member State's central or regional government may apply the to in Article 424(6) in order for them to disburse a
treatments set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 also to credit and promotional loan to a final recipient may take an inflow
liquidity facilities that are provided to institutions for the sole into account up to the amount of the outflow they apply to
purpose of directly or indirectly funding promotional loans the corresponding commitment to extend those
qualifying for the exposure classes referred to in those para­ promotional loans;
graphs. By way of derogation from point (d) of Article 425(2),
where those promotional loans are extended via another insti­
tution as intermediary (pass through loans), a symmetric in and
outflow may be applied by institutions. Those promotional (b) monies due from trade financing transactions referred to in
loans shall be available only to persons who are not financial point (b) of the second subparagraph of Article 162(3) with
customers on a non-competitive, not for profit basis in order to a residual maturity of up to 30 days, shall be taken into
promote public policy objectives of the Union and/or that account in full as inflows;
Member State's central or regional government. It shall only
be possible to draw on such facilities following the reasonably
expected demand for a promotional loan and up to the amount
(c) assets with an undefined contractual end date shall be taken
of such demand linked to a subsequent reporting on the use of
into account with a 20 % inflow provided that the contract
the funds disbursed.
allows the bank to withdraw and request payment within
30 days;
Article 425
(d) monies due from secured lending and capital market-driven
Inflows transactions as defined in point (3) of Article 192 if they are
collateralised by liquid assets as referred to in Article 416(1),
1. Institutions shall report their liquidity inflows. Capped
shall not be taken into account up to the value net of
liquidity inflows shall be the liquidity inflows limited to 75 %
haircuts of the liquid assets and shall be taken into
of liquidity outflows. Institutions may exempt liquidity inflows
account in full for the remaining monies due;
from deposits placed with other institutions and qualifying for
the treatments set out in Article 113(6) or (7) from this limit.
Institutions may exempt liquidity inflows from monies due
from borrowers and bond investors related to mortgage
(e) monies due that the institution owing those monies treats in
lending funded by bonds eligible for the treatment set out in
accordance with Article 422(3) and (4), shall be multiplied
Article 129(4), (5) or (6) or by bonds as referred to in
by a corresponding symmetrical inflow;
Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC from this limit. Insti­
tutions may exempt inflows from promotional loans that the
institutions have passed through. Subject to the prior approval
of the competent authority responsible for supervision on an (f) monies due from positions in major index equity
individual basis, the institution may fully or partially exempt instruments provided there is no double counting with
inflows where the provider is a parent or a subsidiary institution liquid assets;
of the institution or another subsidiary of the same parent
institution or linked to the institution by a relationship within
the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC.
(g) any undrawn credit or liquidity facilities and any other
commitments received shall not be taken into account.
2. The liquidity inflows shall be measured over the next 30
days. They shall comprise only contractual inflows from 3. Outflows and inflows expected over the 30 day horizon
exposures that are not past due and for which the institution from the contracts listed in Annex II shall be reflected on a net
has no reason to expect non-performance within the 30-day basis across counterparties and shall be multiplied by 100 % in
time horizon. Liquidity inflows shall be reported in full with the event of a net inflow. Net basis shall mean also net of
the following inflows reported separately: collateral to be received that qualifies as liquid assets under
Article 416.
(a) monies due from customers that are not financial customers 4. By way of derogation from point (g) of paragraph 2,
for the purposes of principal payment shall be reduced by competent authorities may grant the permission to apply a
50 % of their value or by the contractual commitments to higher inflow on a case by case basis for credit and liquidity
those customers to extend funding, whichever is higher. facilities when all of the following conditions are fulfilled:
This does not apply to monies due from secured lending
and capital market-driven transactions as defined in point
(3) of Article 192 that are collateralised by liquid assets in
accordance with Article 416 as referred to in point (d) of (a) there are reasons to expect a higher inflow even under a
this paragraph. combined market and idiosyncratic stress of the provider;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/251
(b) the counterparty is a parent or subsidiary institution of the Article 426
institution or another subsidiary of the same parent insti­
Updating Future liquidity requirements
tution or linked to the institution by a relationship within
the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC or a Following, the adoption by the Commission of a delegated act
member of the same institutional protection scheme to specify the liquidity requirement in accordance with
referred to in Article 113(7) of this Regulation or the Article 460, EBA may develop draft implementing technical
central institution or a member of a network that is standards to specify the conditions set out in Article 421(1),
subject to the waiver referred to in Article 10 of this Regu­ Article 422, with the exception of paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of
lation; that Article, and Article 424 to take account of standards agreed
internationally.
(c) a corresponding symmetric or more conservative outflow is
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
applied by the counterparty by way of derogation from
menting technical standards referred to in the first paragraph
Articles 422, 423 and 424;
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(d) the institution and the counterparty are established in the
same Member State. TITLE III
REPORTING ON STABLE FUNDING
Article 427
5. Competent authorities may waive the condition set out in
point (d) of paragraph 4 where Article 20(1)(b) is applied. In Items providing stable funding
that case additional objective criteria as set out in the delegated
1. Institutions shall report to the competent authorities, in
act referred to in Article 460 have to be met. Where such
accordance with the reporting requirements set out in
higher inflow is permitted to be applied, the competent auth­
Article 415(1) and the uniform reporting formats referred to
orities shall inform EBA about the result of the process referred
in Article 415(3), the following items and their components in
to in Article 20(1)(b). Fulfilment of the conditions for such
order to allow an assessment of the availability of stable
higher inflows shall be regularly reviewed by the competent
funding:
authorities.
(a) the following own funds, after deductions have been
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to applied, where appropriate:
further specify the additional objective criteria referred to in
paragraph 5.
(i) tier 1 capital instruments;
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to (ii) tier 2 capital instruments;
the Commission by 1 January 2015.
(iii) other preferred shares and capital instruments in excess
of Tier 2 allowable amount having an effective maturity
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
of one year or greater;
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. (b) the following liabilities not included in point (a):
(i) retail deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in
7. Institutions shall not report inflows from any of the liquid
Article 421(1);
assets reported in accordance with Article 416 other than
payments due on the assets that are not reflected in the
market value of the asset.
(ii) retail deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in
Article 421(2);
8. Institutions shall not report inflows from any new
(iii) deposits that qualify for the treatment set out in
obligations entered into.
Article 422 (3) and (4);
9. Institutions shall take liquidity inflows which are to be (iv) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that are
received in third countries where there are transfer restrictions subject to a deposit guarantee scheme in accordance
or which are denominated in non-convertible currencies into with Directive 94/19/EC or an equivalent deposit
account only to the extent that they correspond to outflows guarantee scheme in a third country deposit guar­
respectively in the third country or currency in question. antees within the terms of Article 421(2);
L 176/252 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(v) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that fall (b) the following securities and money market instruments not
under point (b) of Article 422(3); included in point (a):
(vi) of the deposits referred to in point (iii), those that fall (i) assets qualifying for credit step 1 under Article 122;
under point (d) of Article 422(3);
(ii) assets qualifying for credit step 2 under Article 122;
(vii) amounts deposited not falling under point (i), (ii) or
(iii) if they are not deposited by financial customers;
(iii) other assets;
(viii) all funding obtained from financial customers;
(c) equity securities of non-financial entities listed on a major
index in a recognised exchange;
(ix) separately for amounts falling under points (vii) and
(viii) respectively, funding from secured lending and
capital market-driven transactions as defined in point (d) other equity securities;
(3) of Article 192:
(e) gold;
— collateralised by assets that would qualify as liquid
assets in accordance with Article 416;
(f) other precious metals;
— collateralised by any other assets;
(g) non-renewable loans and receivables, and separately those
non-renewable loans and receivables for which borrowers
(x) liabilities resulting from securities issued qualifying for are:
the treatment set out in Article 129(4) or (5) or as
referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC;
(i) natural persons other than commercial sole proprietors
and partnerships;
(xi) the following other liabilities resulting from securities
issued that do not fall under point (a):
(ii) SMEs that qualify for the retail exposure class under the
Standardised or IRB approaches for credit risk or to a
— liabilities resulting from securities issued with an company which is eligible for the treatment set out in
effective maturity of one year or greater; Article 153(4) and where the aggregate deposit placed
by that client or group of connected clients is less than
— liabilities resulting from securities issued with an EUR 1 million;
effective maturity of less than one year;
(iii) sovereigns, central banks and public sector entities;
(xii) any other liabilities.
(iv) clients not referred to in points (i) and (ii) other than
2. Where applicable, all items shall be presented in the financial customers;
following five buckets according to the closest of their
maturity date and the earliest date at which they can contrac­
(v) clients not referred to in points (i), (ii) and (iii) that are
tually be called:
financial customers, and thereof separately those that
are credit institutions and other financial customers;
(a) within three months;
(h) non-renewable loans and receivables referred to in point (g),
(b) between three and six months;
and thereof separately those that are:
(c) between six and nine months;
(i) collateralised by commercial real estate (CRE);
(d) between nine and 12 months;
(ii) collateralised by residential real estate (RRE);
(e) after 12 months.
(iii) match funded (pass-through) via bonds eligible for the
treatment set out in Article 129(4) or (5) or via bonds
Article 428 as referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC;
Items requiring stable funding
(i) derivatives receivables;
1. Unless deducted from own funds, the following items
shall be reported to competent authorities separately in order
to allow an assessment of the needs for stable funding: (j) any other assets;
(a) the assets that would qualify as liquid assets in accordance (k) undrawn committed credit facilities that qualify as 'medium
with Article 416, broken down by asset type; risk' or 'medium/low risk' under Annex I.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/253
2. Where applicable, all items shall be presented in the five (a) the exposure values of assets excluding contracts listed in
buckets described in Article 427(2). Annex II and credit derivatives, means exposure values in
accordance with the first sentence of Article 111(1);
PART SEVEN
(b) physical or financial collateral, guarantees or credit risk miti­
LEVERAGE
gation purchased shall not be used to reduce exposure
Article 429 values of assets;
Calculation of the leverage ratio
1. Institutions shall calculate their leverage ratio in (c) loans shall not be netted with deposits.
accordance with the methodology set out in paragraphs 2 to
11.
6. Institutions shall determine the exposure value of
contracts listed in Annex II and of credit derivatives including
2. The leverage ratio shall be calculated as an institution's those that are off-balance sheet, in accordance with the method
capital measure divided by that institution's total exposure set out in Article 274.
measure and shall be expressed as a percentage.
In determining the exposure value of contracts listed in Annex
Institutions shall calculate the leverage ratio as the simple II and of credit derivatives, institutions shall take into account
arithmetic mean of the monthly leverage ratios over a quarter. the effects of contracts for novation and other netting agree­
ments, except contractual cross-product netting agreements, in
accordance with Article 295.
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, the capital measure shall
be the Tier 1 capital.
7. By way of derogation from paragraph 6, institutions may
use the method set out in Article 275 to determine the
exposure value of contracts listed in points 1 and 2 of Annex
4. The total exposure measure is the sum of the exposure II only where they also use that method for determining the
values of all assets and off-balance sheet items not deducted exposure value of those contracts for the purposes of meeting
when determining the capital measure referred to in the own funds requirements set out in Article 92.
paragraph 3.
8. When determining the potential future credit exposure of
Where institutions include a financial sector entity in which credit derivatives, institutions shall apply the principles laid
they hold a significant investment in accordance with Article 43 down in Article 299(2) to all their credit derivatives, not just
in their consolidation according to the applicable accounting those assigned to the trading book.
framework, but not in their prudential consolidation in
accordance with Chapter 2 of Title II of Part One, they shall
determine the exposure value for the significant investment not
in accordance with point (a) of paragraph 5 of this Article but 9. Institutions shall determine the exposure value of
as the amount that is obtained by multiplying the amount repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending or
defined in point (a) of this subparagraph with the factor borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and
defined in point (b) of this subparagraph: margin lending transactions including those that are off-
balance sheet, in accordance with Article 220(1) to (3) and
Article 222, and shall take into account the effects of master
netting agreements, except contractual cross-product netting
(a) the sum of the exposure values of all exposures of the agreements, in accordance with Article 206.
financial sector entity in which the significant investment
is held;
10. Institutions shall determine the exposure value of off-
balance sheet items, except the items referred to in paragraphs
(b) for all direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of the insti­ 6 and 9 of this Article, in accordance with Article 111(1),
tution of the Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of the subject to the following amendments to the conversion
financial sector entity, the total amount of such items not factors listed in that Article:
deducted pursuant to Article 47 and point (b) of
Article 48(1) divided by the total amount of such items.
(a) the conversion factor to be applied to the nominal value for
undrawn credit facilities, which may be cancelled uncon­
5. Institutions shall determine the exposure value of assets in ditionally at any time without notice, referred to in points
accordance with the following principles: 4(a) and (b) of Annex I, is 10 %;
L 176/254 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the conversion factor for medium/low risk trade finance Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
related off-balance sheet items referred to in point 3(a) of menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
Annex I and to officially supported export credits related in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
off-balance sheet items referred to in point 3(b)(i) of Annex No 1093/2010.
I is 20 %;
PART EIGHT
(c) the conversion factor for medium risk trade finance related DISCLOSURE BY INSTITUTIONS
off-balance sheet items referred to in points 2(a) and 2(b)(i)
of Annex I and to officially supported export credits related TITLE I
off-balance sheet items referred to in point 2(b)(ii) of Annex
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
I is 50 %;
Article 431
Scope of disclosure requirements
(d) the conversion factor for all other off-balance sheet items
1. Institutions shall publicly disclose the information laid
listed in Annex I is 100 %.
down in Title II, subject to the provisions laid down in
Article 432.
11. Where national generally accepted accounting principles
recognises fiduciary assets on balance sheet, in accordance with 2. Permission granted by the competent authorities under
Article 10 of Directive 86/635/EEC, those assets may be Part Three for the instruments and methodologies referred to
excluded from the leverage ratio total exposure measure in Title III shall be subject to the public disclosure by insti­
provided that they meet the criteria for non-recognition set tutions of the information laid down therein.
out in International Accounting Standard (IAS) 39, as applicable
under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, and, where applicable,
the criteria for non-consolidation set out in International
3. Institutions shall adopt a formal policy to comply with the
Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 10, as applicable under
disclosure requirements laid down in this Part, and have policies
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002.
for assessing the appropriateness of their disclosures, including
their verification and frequency. Institutions shall also have
policies for assessing whether their disclosures convey their
risk profile comprehensively to market participants.
Article 430
Reporting requirement
1. Institutions shall submit to the competent authorities all Where those disclosures do not convey the risk profile compre­
necessary information on the leverage ratio and its components hensively to market participants, institutions shall publicly
in accordance with Article 429. Competent authorities shall disclose the information necessary in addition to that required
take into account this information when undertaking the super­ in accordance with paragraph 1. However, they shall only be
visory review referred to in Article 97 of Directive 2013/36/EU. required to disclose information which is material and not
proprietary or confidential in accordance with Article 432.
Institutions shall also submit to the competent authorities the
4. Institutions shall, if requested, explain their rating
information required for the purposes of the preparation of the
decisions to SMEs and other corporate applicants for loans,
reports referred to in Article 511.
providing an explanation in writing when asked. The adminis­
trative costs of the explanation shall be proportionate to the
size of the loan.
Competent authorities shall submit the information received
from institutions to EBA upon its request to facilitate the
review referred to in Article 511. Article 432
Non-material, proprietary or confidential information
1. Institutions may omit one or more of the disclosures
2. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
listed in Title II if the information provided by such disclosures
to determine the uniform reporting template, the instructions
is not regarded as material, except for the disclosures laid down
on how to use such template, the frequencies and dates of
in Article 435(2)(c), Article 437 and Article 450.
reporting and the IT solutions, for the purposes of the
reporting requirement laid down in paragraph 1.
Information in disclosures shall be regarded as material if its
omission or misstatement could change or influence the
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards assessment or decision of a user relying on that information
to the Commission by 1 February 2015. for the purpose of making economic decisions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/255
EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) items of information laid down in Article 437, and points (c) to
No 1093/2010, issue guidelines by 31 December 2014 on (f) of Article 438, and information on risk exposure and other
how institutions have to apply materiality in relation to the items prone to rapid change.
disclosure requirements of Title II.
EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
2. Institutions may also omit one or more items of No 1093/2010, issue guidelines by 31 December 2014 on insti­
information included in the disclosures listed in Titles II and tutions assessing more frequent disclosures of Titles II and III.
III if those items include information which is regarded as
proprietary or confidential in accordance with the second and
third subparagraphs, except for the disclosures laid down in Article 434
Articles 437 and 450.
Means of disclosures
1. Institutions may determine the appropriate medium,
Information shall be regarded as proprietary to an institution if location and means of verification to comply effectively with
disclosing it publicly would undermine its competitive position. the disclosure requirements laid down in this Part. To the degree
It may include information on products or systems which, if feasible, all disclosures shall be provided in one medium or
shared with competitors, would render an institution's location. If a similar piece of information is disclosed in two
investments therein less valuable. or more media, a reference to the synonymous information in
the other media shall be included within each medium.
Information shall be regarded as confidential if there are
obligations to customers or other counterparty relationships 2. Equivalent disclosures made by institutions under
binding an institution to confidentiality. accounting, listing or other requirements may be deemed to
constitute compliance with this Part. If disclosures are not
included in the financial statements, institutions shall
unambiguously indicate in the financial statements where they
EBA shall, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
can be found.
No 1093/2010, issue guidelines by 31 December 2014 on
how institutions have to apply proprietary and confidentiality
in relation to the disclosure requirements of Titles II and III.
TITLE II
TECHNICAL CRITERIA ON TRANSPARENCY AND
3. In the exceptional cases referred to in paragraph 2, the DISCLOSURE
institution concerned shall state in its disclosures the fact that
Article 435
the specific items of information are not disclosed, the reason
for non-disclosure, and publish more general information about Risk management objectives and policies
the subject matter of the disclosure requirement, except where
1. Institutions shall disclose their risk management objectives
these are to be classified as proprietary or confidential.
and policies for each separate category of risk, including the
risks referred to under this Title. These disclosures shall include:
4. Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are without prejudice to the scope
of liability for failure to disclose material information.
(a) the strategies and processes to manage those risks;
Article 433
(b) the structure and organisation of the relevant risk
management function including information on its
Frequency of disclosure
authority and statute, or other appropriate arrangements;
Institutions shall publish the disclosures required by this Part at
least on an annual basis.
(c) the scope and nature of risk reporting and measurement
systems;
Annual disclosures shall be published in conjunction with the
date of publication of the financial statements.
(d) the policies for hedging and mitigating risk, and the
strategies and processes for monitoring the continuing effec­
Institutions shall assess the need to publish some or all tiveness of hedges and mitigants;
disclosures more frequently than annually in the light of the
relevant characteristics of their business such as scale of oper­
ations, range of activities, presence in different countries, (e) a declaration approved by the management body on the
involvement in different financial sectors, and participation in adequacy of risk management arrangements of the insti­
international financial markets and payment, settlement and tution providing assurance that the risk management
clearing systems. That assessment shall pay particular systems put in place are adequate with regard to the insti­
attention to the possible need for more frequent disclosure of tution's profile and strategy;
L 176/256 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(f) a concise risk statement approved by the management body (d) the aggregate amount by which the actual own funds are
succinctly describing the institution's overall risk profile less than required in all subsidiaries not included in the
associated with the business strategy. This statement shall consolidation, and the name or names of such subsidiaries;
include key ratios and figures providing external stake­
holders with a comprehensive view of the institution's
management of risk, including how the risk profile of the (e) if applicable, the circumstance of making use of the
institution interacts with the risk tolerance set by the provisions laid down in Articles 7 and 9.
management body.
Article 437
2. Institutions shall disclose the following information,
including regular, at least annual updates, regarding governance Own funds
arrangements:
1. Institutions shall disclose the following information
regarding their own funds:
(a) the number of directorships held by members of the
management body;
(a) a full reconciliation of Common Equity Tier 1 items,
Additional Tier 1 items, Tier 2 items and filters and
(b) the recruitment policy for the selection of members of the deductions applied pursuant to Articles 32 to 35, 36, 56,
management body and their actual knowledge, skills and 66 and 79 to own funds of the institution and the balance
expertise; sheet in the audited financial statements of the institution;
(c) the policy on diversity with regard to selection of members
(b) a description of the main features of the Common Equity
of the management body, its objectives and any relevant
Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1 instruments and Tier 2
targets set out in that policy, and the extent to which
instruments issued by the institution;
these objectives and targets have been achieved;
(c) the full terms and conditions of all Common Equity Tier 1,
(d) whether or not the institution has set up a separate risk
Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments;
committee and the number of times the risk committee has
met;
(d) separate disclosure of the nature and amounts of the
(e) the description of the information flow on risk to the following:
management body.
(i) each prudential filter applied pursuant to Articles 32
Article 436 to 35;
Scope of application
Institutions shall disclose the following information regarding (ii) each deduction made pursuant to Articles 36, 56
the scope of application of the requirements of this Regulation and 66;
in accordance with Directive 2013/36/EU:
(iii) items not deducted in accordance with Articles 47, 48,
(a) the name of the institution to which the requirements of 56, 66 and 79;
this Regulation apply;
(e) a description of all restrictions applied to the calculation of
(b) an outline of the differences in the basis of consolidation for
own funds in accordance with this Regulation and the
accounting and prudential purposes, with a brief description
instruments, prudential filters and deductions to which
of the entities therein, explaining whether they are:
those restrictions apply;
(i) fully consolidated;
(f) where institutions disclose capital ratios calculated using
elements of own funds determined on a basis other than
(ii) proportionally consolidated; that laid down in this Regulation, a comprehensive expla­
nation of the basis on which those capital ratios are calcu­
lated.
(iii) deducted from own funds;
(iv) neither consolidated nor deducted; 2. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
to specify uniform templates for disclosure under points (a), (b),
(d) and (e) of paragraph 1.
(c) any current or foreseen material practical or legal
impediment to the prompt transfer of own funds or
repayment of liabilities among the parent undertaking and EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
its subsidiaries; to the Commission by 1 February 2015.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/257
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ disclose the exposures assigned to each category in Table 1 of
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph Article 153(5), or to each risk weight mentioned in
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) Article 155(2).
No 1093/2010.
Article 439
Article 438
Exposure to counterparty credit risk
Capital requirements
Institutions shall disclose the following information regarding
Institutions shall disclose the following information regarding the institution's exposure to counterparty credit risk as referred
the compliance by the institution with the requirements laid to in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 6:
down in Article 92 of this Regulation and in Article 73 of
Directive 2013/36/EU:
(a) a discussion of the methodology used to assign internal
capital and credit limits for counterparty credit exposures;
(a) a summary of the institution's approach to assessing the
adequacy of its internal capital to support current and (b) a discussion of policies for securing collateral and estab­
future activities; lishing credit reserves;
(b) upon demand from the relevant competent authority, the (c) a discussion of policies with respect to wrong-way risk
result of the institution's internal capital adequacy exposures;
assessment process including the composition of the
additional own funds requirements based on the supervisory
(d) a discussion of the impact of the amount of collateral the
review process as referred to in point (a) of Article 104(1)
institution would have to provide given a downgrade in its
of Directive 2013/36/EU;
credit rating;
(c) for institutions calculating the risk-weighted exposure
(e) gross positive fair value of contracts, netting benefits, netted
amounts in accordance with Chapter 2 of Part Three, Title
current credit exposure, collateral held and net derivatives
II, 8 % of the risk-weighted exposure amounts for each of
credit exposure. Net derivatives credit exposure is the credit
the exposure classes specified in Article 112;
exposure on derivatives transactions after considering both
the benefits from legally enforceable netting agreements and
collateral arrangements;
(d) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part Three, Title II, 8 % of
the risk-weighted exposure amounts for each of the (f) measures for exposure value under the methods set out in
exposure classes specified in Article 147. For the retail Part Three, Title II, Chapter 6, Sections 3 to 6 whichever
exposure class, this requirement applies to each of the method is applicable;
categories of exposures to which the different correlations
in Article 154(1) to (4) correspond. For the equity exposure
class, this requirement applies to: (g) the notional value of credit derivative hedges, and the
distribution of current credit exposure by types of credit
exposure;
(i) each of the approaches provided in Article 155;
(h) the notional amounts of credit derivative transactions,
(ii) exchange traded exposures, private equity exposures in segregated between use for the institution's own credit port­
sufficiently diversified portfolios, and other exposures; folio, as well as in its intermediation activities, including the
distribution of the credit derivatives products used, broken
down further by protection bought and sold within each
(iii) exposures subject to supervisory transition regarding product group;
own funds requirements;
(i) the estimate of α if the institution has received the
(iv) exposures subject to grandfathering provisions permission of the competent authorities to estimate α.
regarding own funds requirements;
Article 440
(e) own funds requirements calculated in accordance with
Capital buffers
points (b) and (c) of Article 92(3);
1. An institution shall disclose the following information in
relation to its compliance with the requirement for a counter­
(f) own funds requirements calculated in accordance with Part cyclical capital buffer referred to in Title VII, Chapter 4 of
Three, Title III, Chapters 2, 3 and 4 and disclosed separately. Directive 2013/36/EU:
The institutions calculating the risk-weighted exposure amounts (a) the geographical distribution of its credit exposures relevant
in accordance with Article 153(5) or Article 155(2) shall for the calculation of its countercyclical capital buffer;
L 176/258 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) the amount of its institution specific countercyclical capital (f) the residual maturity breakdown of all the exposures,
buffer. broken down by exposure classes, and further detailed if
appropriate;
2. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards
specifying the disclosure requirements set out in paragraph 1.
(g) by significant industry or counterparty type, the amount of:
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 31 December 2014. (i) impaired exposures and past due exposures, provided
separately;
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in (ii) specific and general credit risk adjustments;
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(iii) charges for specific and general credit risk adjustments
during the reporting period;
Article 441
Indicators of global systemic importance
(h) the amount of the impaired exposures and past due
1. Institutions identified as G-SIIs in accordance with exposures, provided separately, broken down by significant
Article 131 of Directive 2013/36/EU shall disclose, on an geographical areas including, if practical, the amounts of
annual basis, the values of the indicators used for determining specific and general credit risk adjustments related to each
the score of the institutions in accordance with the identifi­ geographical area;
cation methodology referred to in that Article.
(i) the reconciliation of changes in the specific and general
2. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
credit risk adjustments for impaired exposures, shown
to specify the uniform formats and date for the purposes of the
separately. The information shall comprise:
disclosure referred to in paragraph 1. In developing those
technical standards, EBA shall take into account international
standards. (i) a description of the type of specific and general credit
risk adjustments;
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
to the Commission by 1 July 2014.
(ii) the opening balances;
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph (iii) the amounts taken against the credit risk adjustments
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU) during the reporting period;
No 1093/2010.
(iv) the amounts set aside or reversed for estimated
Article 442
probable losses on exposures during the reporting
period, any other adjustments including those
Credit risk adjustments
determined by exchange rate differences, business
Institutions shall disclose the following information regarding combinations, acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries,
the institution's exposure to credit risk and dilution risk: and transfers between credit risk adjustments;
(a) the definitions for accounting purposes of 'past due' and
(v) the closing balances.
'impaired';
(b) a description of the approaches and methods adopted for Specific credit risk adjustments and recoveries recorded directly
determining specific and general credit risk adjustments; to the income statement shall be disclosed separately.
(c) the total amount of exposures after accounting offsets and Article 443
without taking into account the effects of credit risk miti­
gation, and the average amount of the exposures over the Unencumbered assets
period broken down by different types of exposure classes;
EBA shall issue guidelines specifying the disclosure of
unencumbered assets, taking into account Recommendation
(d) the geographic distribution of the exposures, broken down ESRB/2012/2 of the European Systemic Risk Board of
in significant areas by material exposure classes, and further 20 December 2012 on funding of credit institutions ( 1) and
detailed if appropriate; in particular Recommendation D - Market transparency on
asset encumbrance, by 30 June 2014. Those guidelines shall
(e) the distribution of the exposures by industry or be adopted in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU)
counterparty type, broken down by exposure classes, No 1093/2010.
including specifying exposure to SMEs, and further
detailed if appropriate; ( 1 ) OJ C 119, 25.4.2013, p. 1.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/259
EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify Article 446
disclosure of the balance sheet value per exposure class broken
Operational risk
down by asset quality and the total amount of the balance sheet
value that is unencumbered, taking into account Recommen­ Institutions shall disclose the approaches for the assessment of
dation ESRB/2012/2 and conditional on EBA considering in its own funds requirements for operational risk that the institution
report that such additional disclosure offers reliable and mean­ qualifies for; a description of the methodology set out in
ingful information. Article 312(2), if used by the institution, including a discussion
of relevant internal and external factors considered in the insti­
tution's measurement approach, and in the case of partial use,
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the scope and coverage of the different methodologies used.
the Commission by 1 January 2016.
Article 447
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory Exposures in equities not included in the trading book
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
Institutions shall disclose the following information regarding
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
the exposures in equities not included in the trading book:
No 1093/2010.
(a) the differentiation between exposures based on their objec­
Article 444 tives, including for capital gains relationship and strategic
reasons, and an overview of the accounting techniques and
Use of ECAIs
valuation methodologies used, including key assumptions
For institutions calculating the risk-weighted exposure amounts and practices affecting valuation and any significant
in accordance with Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2, the following changes in these practices;
information shall be disclosed for each of the exposure classes
specified in Article 112:
(b) the balance sheet value, the fair value and, for those
exchange-traded, a comparison to the market price where
it is materially different from the fair value;
(a) the names of the nominated ECAIs and ECAs and the
reasons for any changes;
(c) the types, nature and amounts of exchange-traded
exposures, private equity exposures in sufficiently diversified
(b) the exposure classes for which each ECAI or ECA is used; portfolios, and other exposures;
(d) the cumulative realised gains or losses arising from sales and
(c) a description of the process used to transfer the issuer and
liquidations in the period; and
issue credit assessments onto items not included in the
trading book;
(e) the total unrealised gains or losses, the total latent
revaluation gains or losses, and any of these amounts
(d) the association of the external rating of each nominated included in the original or additional own funds.
ECAI or ECA with the credit quality steps prescribed in
Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2, taking into account that
this information needs not be disclosed if the institution Article 448
complies with the standard association published by EBA;
Exposure to interest rate risk on positions not included in
the trading book
Institutions shall disclose the following information on their
(e) the exposure values and the exposure values after credit risk
exposure to interest rate risk on positions not included in the
mitigation associated with each credit quality step prescribed
trading book:
in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2 as well as those deducted
from own funds.
(a) the nature of the interest rate risk and the key assumptions
(including assumptions regarding loan prepayments and
Article 445 behaviour of non-maturity deposits), and frequency of
measurement of the interest rate risk;
Exposure to market risk
The institutions calculating their own funds requirements in
accordance with points (b) and (c) of Article 92(3) shall (b) the variation in earnings, economic value or other relevant
disclose those requirements separately for each risk referred to measure used by the management for upward and
in those provisions. In addition, the own funds requirement for downward rate shocks according to management's method
specific interest rate risk of securitisation positions shall be for measuring the interest rate risk, broken down by
disclosed separately. currency.
L 176/260 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
Article 449 (i) whether the transactions are treated as sales or
financings;
Exposure to securitisation positions
Institutions calculating risk weighted exposure amounts in
accordance with Part Three, Title II, Chapter 5 or own funds (ii) the recognition of gains on sales;
requirements in accordance with Article 337 or 338 shall
disclose the following information, where relevant, separately
for their trading and non-trading book: (iii) the methods, key assumptions, inputs and changes
from the previous period for valuing securitisation
positions;
(a) a description of the institution's objectives in relation to
securitisation activity;
(iv) the treatment of synthetic securitisations if not covered
by other accounting policies;
(b) the nature of other risks including liquidity risk inherent in
securitised assets;
(v) how assets awaiting securitisation are valued and
whether they are recorded in the institution's non-
trading book or the trading book;
(c) the type of risks in terms of seniority of underlying secu­
ritisation positions and in terms of assets underlying those
latter securitisation positions assumed and retained with re-
securitisation activity; (vi) policies for recognising liabilities on the balance sheet
for arrangements that could require the institution to
provide financial support for securitised assets;
(d) the different roles played by the institution in the securiti­
sation process;
(k) the names of the ECAIs used for securitisations and the
types of exposure for which each agency is used;
(e) an indication of the extent of the institution's involvement
in each of the roles referred to in point (d);
(l) where applicable, a description of the Internal Assessment
Approach as set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter 5,
Section 3, including the structure of the internal assessment
(f) a description of the processes in place to monitor changes
process and relation between internal assessment and
in the credit and market risk of securitisation exposures
external ratings, the use of internal assessment other than
including, how the behaviour of the underlying assets
for Internal Assessment Approach capital purposes, the
impacts securitisation exposures and a description of how
control mechanisms for the internal assessment process
those processes differ for re-securitisation exposures;
including discussion of independence, accountability, and
internal assessment process review, the exposure types to
which the internal assessment process is applied and the
(g) a description of the institution's policy governing the use of stress factors used for determining credit enhancement
hedging and unfunded protection to mitigate the risks of levels, by exposure type;
retained securitisation and re-securitisation exposures,
including identification of material hedge counterparties
by relevant type of risk exposure; (m) an explanation of significant changes to any of the quanti­
tative disclosures in points (n) to (q) since the last reporting
period;
(h) the approaches to calculating risk weighted exposure
amounts that the institution follows for its securitisation
activities including the types of securitisation exposures to (n) separately for the trading and the non-trading book, the
which each approach applies; following information broken down by exposure type:
(i) the types of SSPE that the institution, as sponsor, uses to (i) the total amount of outstanding exposures securitised
securitise third-party exposures including whether and in by the institution, separately for traditional and
what form and to what extent the institution has synthetic securitisations and securitisations for which
exposures to those SSPEs, separately for on- and off- the institution acts only as sponsor;
balance sheet exposures, as well as a list of the entities
that the institution manages or advises and that invest in
either the securitisation positions that the institution has (ii) the aggregate amount of on-balance sheet securitisation
securitised or in SSPEs that the institution sponsors; positions retained or purchased and off-balance sheet
securitisation exposures;
(j) a summary of the institution's accounting policies for secu­
ritisation activities, including: (iii) the aggregate amount of assets awaiting securitisation;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/261
(iv) for securitised facilities subject to the early amorti­ of the institution for those categories of staff whose professional
sation treatment, the aggregate drawn exposures activities have a material impact on its risk profile:
attributed to the originator's and investors' interests
respectively, the aggregate capital requirements
incurred by the institution against the originator's (a) information concerning the decision-making process used
interest and the aggregate capital requirements for determining the remuneration policy, as well as the
incurred by the institution against the investor's number of meetings held by the main body overseeing
shares of drawn balances and undrawn lines; remuneration during the financial year, including, if appli­
cable, information about the composition and the mandate
of a remuneration committee, the external consultant whose
services have been used for the determination of the remun­
(v) the amount of securitisation positions that are
eration policy and the role of the relevant stakeholders;
deducted from own funds or risk-weighted at 1 250 %;
(b) information on link between pay and performance;
(vi) a summary of the securitisation activity of the current
period, including the amount of exposures securitised
and recognised gain or loss on sale; (c) the most important design characteristics of the remun­
eration system, including information on the criteria used
for performance measurement and risk adjustment, deferral
policy and vesting criteria;
(o) separately for the trading and the non-trading book, the
following information:
(d) the ratios between fixed and variable remuneration set in
accordance with Article 94(1)(g) of Directive 2013/36/EU;
(i) the aggregate amount of securitisation positions
retained or purchased and the associated capital
requirements, broken down between securitisation and (e) information on the performance criteria on which the
re-securitisation exposures and further broken down entitlement to shares, options or variable components of
into a meaningful number of risk-weight or capital remuneration is based;
requirement bands, for each capital requirements
approach used;
(f) the main parameters and rationale for any variable
component scheme and any other non-cash benefits;
(ii) the aggregate amount of re-securitisation exposures
retained or purchased broken down according to the
(g) aggregate quantitative information on remuneration, broken
exposure before and after hedging/insurance and the
down by business area;
exposure to financial guarantors, broken down
according to guarantor credit worthiness categories or
guarantor name; (h) aggregate quantitative information on remuneration, broken
down by senior management and members of staff whose
actions have a material impact on the risk profile of the
(p) for the non-trading book and regarding exposures institution, indicating the following:
securitised by the institution, the amount of impaired/past
due assets securitised and the losses recognised by the
institution during the current period, both broken down (i) the amounts of remuneration for the financial year,
by exposure type; split into fixed and variable remuneration, and the
number of beneficiaries;
(q) for the trading book, the total outstanding exposures
(ii) the amounts and forms of variable remuneration, split
securitised by the institution and subject to a capital
into cash, shares, share-linked instruments and other
requirement for market risk, broken down into traditional/
types;
synthetic and by exposure type;
(iii) the amounts of outstanding deferred remuneration, split
(r) where applicable, whether the institution has provided into vested and unvested portions;
support within the terms of Article 248(1) and the
impact on own funds.
(iv) the amounts of deferred remuneration awarded during
the financial year, paid out and reduced through
performance adjustments;
Article 450
Remuneration policy
(v) new sign-on and severance payments made during the
1. Institutions shall disclose at least the following financial year, and the number of beneficiaries of such
information, regarding the remuneration policy and practices payments;
L 176/262 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(vi) the amounts of severance payments awarded during the 2. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
financial year, number of beneficiaries and highest such to determine the uniform disclosure template for the disclosure
award to a single person; referred to in paragraph 1 and the instructions on how to use
such template.
(i) the number of individuals being remunerated EUR 1 million
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
or more per financial year, for remuneration between EUR 1
to the Commission by 30 June 2014.
million and EUR 5 million broken down into pay bands of
EUR 500 000 and for remuneration of EUR 5 million and
above broken down into pay bands of EUR 1 million;
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
(j) upon demand from the Member State or competent auth­ No 1093/2010.
ority, the total remuneration for each member of the
management body or senior management.
TITLE III
QUALIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE USE OF PARTICULAR
2. For institutions that are significant in terms of their size, INSTRUMENTS OR METHODOLOGIES
internal organisation and the nature, scope and the complexity
Article 452
of their activities, the quantitative information referred to in this
Article shall also be made available to the public at the level of Use of the IRB Approach to credit risk
members of the management body of the institution.
Institutions calculating the risk-weighted exposure amounts
under the IRB Approach shall disclose the following
information:
Institutions shall comply with the requirements set out in this
Article in a manner that is appropriate to their size, internal
organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of their (a) the competent authority's permission of the approach or
activities and without prejudice to Directive 95/46/EC. approved transition;
(b) an explanation and review of:
Article 451
Leverage
(i) the structure of internal rating systems and relation
1. Institutions shall disclose the following information
between internal and external ratings;
regarding their leverage ratio calculated in accordance with
Article 429 and their management of the risk of excessive
leverage:
(ii) the use of internal estimates other than for calculating
risk-weighted exposure amounts in accordance with
Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3;
(a) the leverage ratio and how the institution applies
Article 499(2) and (3);
(iii) the process for managing and recognising credit risk
mitigation;
(b) a breakdown of the total exposure measure as well as a
reconciliation of the total exposure measure with the
(iv) the control mechanisms for rating systems including a
relevant information disclosed in published financial state­
description of independence, accountability, and rating
ments;
systems review;
(c) where applicable, the amount of derecognised fiduciary (c) a description of the internal ratings process, provided
items in accordance with Article 429(11); separately for the following exposure classes:
(i) central governments and central banks;
(d) a description of the processes used to manage the risk of
excessive leverage;
(ii) institutions;
(e) a description of the factors that had an impact on the
leverage ratio during the period to which the disclosed (iii) corporate, including SMEs, specialised lending and
leverage ratio refers. purchased corporate receivables;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/263
(iv) retail, for each of the categories of exposures to which the categories as set out in point (c)(iv). Where appropriate,
the different correlations in Article 154(1) to (4) the institutions shall further decompose this to provide
correspond; analysis of PD and, for the institutions using own
estimates of LGDs and/or conversion factors, LGD and
conversion factor outcomes against estimates provided in
(v) equities; the quantitative risk assessment disclosures set out in this
Article;
(d) the exposure values for each of the exposure classes
specified in Article 147. Exposures to central governments (j) for all exposure classes specified in Article 147 and for each
and central banks, institutions and corporates where insti­ category of exposure to which the different correlations in
tutions use own estimates of LGDs or conversion factors for Article 154 (1) to (4) correspond:
the calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts shall be
disclosed separately from exposures for which the insti­
tutions do not use such estimates; (i) for the institutions using own LGD estimates for the
calculation of risk-weighted exposure amounts, the
exposure-weighted average LGD and PD in percentage
(e) for each of the exposure classes central governments and for each relevant geographical location of credit
central banks, institutions, corporate and equity, and across exposures;
a sufficient number of obligor grades (including default) to
allow for a meaningful differentiation of credit risk, insti­
tutions shall disclose: (ii) for the institutions that do not use own LGD estimates,
the exposure-weighted average PD in percentage for
each relevant geographical location of credit exposures.
(i) the total exposures, including for the exposure classes
central governments and central banks, institutions and
corporate, the sum of outstanding loans and exposure For the purposes of point (c), the description shall include the
values for undrawn commitments; and for equities the types of exposure included in the exposure class, the definitions,
outstanding amount; methods and data for estimation and validation of PD and, if
applicable, LGD and conversion factors, including assumptions
employed in the derivation of these variables, and the
(ii) the exposure-weighted average risk weight; descriptions of material deviations from the definition of
default as set out in Article 178, including the broad
segments affected by such deviations.
(iii) for the institutions using own estimates of conversion
factors for the calculation of risk-weighted exposure
amounts, the amount of undrawn commitments and For the purposes of point (j), the relevant geographical location
exposure-weighted average exposure values for each of credit exposures means exposures in the Member States in
exposure class; which the institution has been authorised and Member States or
third countries in which institutions carry out activities through
a branch or a subsidiary.
(f) For the retail exposure class and for each of the categories
set out in point (c)(iv), either the disclosures outlined in
point (e) (if applicable, on a pooled basis), or an analysis
Article 453
of exposures (outstanding loans and exposure values for
undrawn commitments) against a sufficient number of EL Use of credit risk mitigation techniques
grades to allow for a meaningful differentiation of credit
The institutions applying credit risk mitigation techniques shall
risk (if applicable, on a pooled basis);
disclose the following information:
(g) the actual specific credit risk adjustments in the preceding
(a) the policies and processes for, and an indication of the
period for each exposure class (for retail, for each of the
extent to which the entity makes use of, on- and off-
categories as set out in point (c)(iv)) and how they differ
balance sheet netting;
from past experience;
(b) the policies and processes for collateral valuation and
(h) a description of the factors that impacted on the loss
management;
experience in the preceding period (for example, has the
institution experienced higher than average default rates,
or higher than average LGDs and conversion factors); (c) a description of the main types of collateral taken by the
institution;
(i) the institution's estimates against actual outcomes over a
longer period. At a minimum, this shall include information (d) the main types of guarantor and credit derivative
on estimates of losses against actual losses in each exposure counterparty and their creditworthiness;
class (for retail, for each of the categories as set out in point
(c)(iv) over a period sufficient to allow for a meaningful
assessment of the performance of the internal rating (e) information about market or credit risk concentrations
processes for each exposure class (for retail for each of within the credit mitigation taken;
L 176/264 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(f) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts (c) a description of the extent and methodologies for
under the Standardised Approach or the IRB Approach, but compliance with the requirements set out in Articles 104
not providing own estimates of LGDs or conversion factors and 105;
in respect of the exposure class, separately for each exposure
class, the total exposure value (after, where applicable, on-
or off-balance sheet netting) that is covered — after the (d) the highest, the lowest and the mean of the following:
application of volatility adjustments — by eligible
financial collateral, and other eligible collateral;
(i) the daily value-at-risk measures over the reporting
period and as per the period end;
(g) for institutions calculating risk-weighted exposure amounts
under the Standardised Approach or the IRB Approach,
(ii) the stressed value-at-risk measures over the reporting
separately for each exposure class, the total exposure
period and as per the period end;
(after, where applicable, on- or off-balance sheet netting)
that is covered by guarantees or credit derivatives. For the
equity exposure class, this requirement applies to each of
(iii) the risk numbers for incremental default and migration
the approaches provided in Article 155.
risk and for the specific risk of the correlation trading
portfolio over the reporting period and as per the
period-end;
Article 454
Use of the Advanced Measurement Approaches to
(e) the elements of the own funds requirement as specified in
operational risk
Article 364;
The institutions using the Advanced Measurement Approaches
set out in Articles 321 to 324 for the calculation of their own
funds requirements for operational risk shall disclose a (f) the weighted average liquidity horizon for each sub-
description of the use of insurances and other risk transfer portfolio covered by the internal models for incremental
mechanisms for the purpose of mitigation of this risk. default and migration risk and for correlation trading;
(g) a comparison of the daily end-of-day value-at-risk measures
Article 455
to the one-day changes of the portfolio's value by the end of
Use of Internal Market Risk Models the subsequent business day together with an analysis of
any important overshooting during the reporting period.
Institutions calculating their capital requirements in accordance
with Article 363 shall disclose the following information:
PART NINE
DELEGATED AND IMPLEMENTING ACTS
(a) for each sub-portfolio covered:
Article 456
Delegated acts
(i) the characteristics of the models used;
1. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated
acts in accordance with Article 462, concerning the following
(ii) where applicable, for the internal models for incre­ matters:
mental default and migration risk and for correlation
trading, the methodologies used and the risks measured
through the use of an internal model including a (a) clarification of the definitions set out in Articles 4, 5, 142,
description of the approach used by the institution to 153, 192, 242, 272, 300, 381 and 411 to ensure uniform
determine liquidity horizons, the methodologies used to application of this Regulation;
achieve a capital assessment that is consistent with the
required soundness standard and the approaches used
in the validation of the model; (b) clarification of the definitions set out in Articles 4, 5, 142,
153, 192, 242, 272, 300, 381 and 411 in order to take
account, in the application of this Regulation, of devel­
opments on financial markets;
(iii) a description of stress testing applied to the sub-port­
folio;
(c) amendment of the list of exposure classes in Articles 112
and 147 in order to take account of developments on
(iv) a description of the approaches used for back-testing
financial markets;
and validating the accuracy and consistency of the
internal models and modelling processes;
(d) the amount specified in point (c) of Article 123,
Article 147(5)(a), Article 153(4) and Article 162(4), to
(b) the scope of permission by the competent authority; take into account the effects of inflation;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/265
(e) the list and classification of the off-balance sheet items in other legislative acts of the Union on financial services and
Annexes I and II, in order to take account of developments accounting including accounting standards based on Regulation
on financial markets; (EC) No 1606/2002:
(f) adjustment of the categories of investment firms in (a) the own funds requirements for credit risk laid down in
Article 95(1) and Article 96(1) to take account of devel­ Articles 111 to 134, and in Articles 143 to 191;
opments on financial markets;
(b) the effects of credit risk mitigation in accordance with
(g) clarification of the requirement laid down in Article 97 to Articles 193 to 241;
ensure uniform application of this Regulation.
(c) the own funds requirements for securitisation laid down in
(h) amendment of the own funds requirements as set out in Articles 243 to 266;
Articles 301 to 311 of this Regulation and Articles 50a to
50d of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 to take account of
(d) the own funds requirements for counterparty credit risks in
developments or amendments of the international standards
accordance with Articles 272 to 311;
for exposures to a central counterparty;
(e) the own funds requirements for operational risk laid down
(i) clarification of the terms referred to in the exemptions
in Articles 315 to 324;
provided for in Article 400;
(f) the own funds requirements for market risk laid down in
(j) amendment of the capital measure and the total exposure
Articles 325 to 377;
measure of the leverage ratio referred to in Article 429(2) in
order to correct any shortcomings discovered on the basis
of the reporting referred to in Article 430(1) before the (g) the own funds requirements for settlement risk laid down in
leverage ratio has to be published by institutions as set Articles 378 and 379;
out in Article 451(1)(a).
(h) the own funds requirements for credit valuation adjustment
2. EBA shall monitor the own fund requirements for credit risk laid down in Articles 383, 384 and 386;
valuation adjustment risk and by 1 January 2015 submit a
report to the Commission. In particular, the report shall assess:
(i) Part Two and Article 99 only as a result of developments in
accounting standards or requirements which take account of
(a) the treatment of CVA risk as a stand-alone charge versus an Union legislation.
integrated component of the market risk framework;
Article 458
(b) the scope of the CVA risk charge including the exemption
Macroprudential or systemic risk identified at the level of a
in Article 482;
Member State
1. Member States shall designate the authority in charge of
(c) eligible hedges;
the application of this Article. This authority shall be the
competent authority or the designated authority.
(d) calculation of capital requirements of CVA risk.
2. Where the authority determined in accordance with
paragraph 1 identifies changes in the intensity of macropru­
On the basis of that report and where the findings are that such
dential or systemic risk in the financial system with the
action is necessary the Commission shall also be empowered to
potential to have serious negative consequences to the
adopt a delegated act in accordance with Article 462 to amend
financial system and the real economy in a specific Member
Article 381, Article 382(1) to (3) and Articles 383 to 386
State and which that authority considers would better be
concerning those items.
addressed by means of stricter national measures, it shall
notify the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission,
the ESRB and EBA of that fact and submit relevant quantitative
Article 457
or qualitative evidence of all of the following:
Technical adjustments and corrections
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in (a) the changes in the intensity of macroprudential or systemic
accordance with Article 462, to make technical adjustment and risk;
corrections of non-essential elements in the following
provisions in order to take account of developments in new
financial products or activities, to make adjustments taking into (b) the reasons why such changes could pose a threat to
account developments after the adoption of this Regulation in financial stability at national level;
L 176/266 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) a justification of why Articles 124 and 164 of this Regu­ internal market that outweighs the financial stability benefits
lation and Articles 101, 103, 104, 105, 133, and 136 of resulting in a reduction of the macroprudential or systemic
Directive 2013/36/EU cannot adequately address the macro­ risk identified, the Commission may, within one month,
prudential or systemic risk identified, taking into account propose to the Council an implementing act to reject the
the relative effectiveness of those measures; draft national measures.
(d) draft national measures for domestically authorised institu­
In the absence of a Commission proposal within that period of
tions, or a subset of those institutions, intended to mitigate
one month, the Member State concerned may immediately
the changes in the intensity of risk and concerning:
adopt the draft national measures for a period of up to two
years or until the macroprudential or systemic risk ceases to
(i) the level of own funds laid down in Article 92; exist if that occurs sooner.
(ii) the requirements for large exposures laid down in
The Council shall decide on the proposal by the Commission
Article 392 and Article 395 to 403;
within one month after receipt of the proposal and state its
reasons for rejecting or not rejecting the draft national
(iii) the public disclosure requirements laid down in measures.
Articles 431 to 455;
The Council shall only reject the draft national measures if it
(iv) the level of the capital conservation buffer laid down in
considers that one or more of the following conditions are not
Article 129 of Directive 2013/36/EU;
complied with:
(v) liquidity requirements laid down in Part Six;
(a) the changes in the intensity of macroprudential or systemic
risk are of such nature as to pose risk to financial stability at
(vi) risk weights for targeting asset bubbles in the resi­ national level;
dential and commercial property sector; or
(vii) intra financial sector exposures; (b) Articles 124 and 164 of this Regulation and Articles 101,
103, 104, 105, 133, and 136 of Directive 2013/36/EU
cannot adequately address the macroprudential or systemic
(e) an explanation as to why the draft measures are deemed by risk identified, taking into account the relative effectiveness
the authority determined in accordance with paragraph 1 to of those measures;
be suitable, effective and proportionate to address the situ­
ation; and
(c) the draft national measures are more suitable to address the
identified macroprudential or systemic risk and do not
(f) an assessment of the likely positive or negative impact of
entail disproportionate adverse effects on the whole or
the draft measures on the internal market based on
parts of the financial system in other Member States or in
information which is available to the Member State
the Union as a whole, thus forming or creating an obstacle
concerned.
to the functioning of the internal market;
3. When authorised to apply national measures in
accordance with this Article, the authorities determined in
(d) the issue concerns only one Member State; and
accordance with paragraph 1 shall provide relevant competent
authorities or designated authorities in other Member States
with all relevant information.
(e) the risks have not already been addressed by other measures
in this Regulation or in Directive 2013/36/EU.
4. The power to adopt an implementing act to reject the
draft national measures referred to in point (d) of paragraph
2 is conferred on the Council, acting by qualified majority, on a The assessment of the Council shall take into account the
proposal from the Commission. opinion of the ESRB and EBA and shall be based on the
evidence presented in accordance with paragraph 2 by the
authority determined in accordance with paragraph 1.
Within one month of receiving the notification referred to in
paragraph 2, the ESRB and EBA shall provide their opinions on
the points mentioned in that paragraph to the Council, the
In the absence of a Council implementing act to reject the draft
Commission and the Member State concerned.
national measures within one month after receipt of the
proposal by the Commission, the Member State may adopt
Taking utmost account of the opinions referred to in the second the measures and apply them for a period of up to two years
subparagraph and if there is robust, strong and detailed or until the macroprudential or systemic risk ceases to exist if
evidence that the measure will have a negative impact on the that occurs sooner.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/267
5. Other Member States may recognise the measures set in (b) the requirements for large exposures laid down in
accordance with this Article and apply them to domestically Article 392 and Articles 395 to 403;
authorised branches located in the Member State authorised
to apply the measures.
(c) the public disclosure requirements laid down in Articles 431
to 455.
6. Where Member States recognise the measures set in
accordance with this Article, they shall notify the Council, the The Commission, assisted by the ESRB shall, at least on an
Commission, EBA, the ESRB and the Member State authorised annual basis, submit to the European Parliament and the
to apply the measures. Council, a report on market developments potentially
requiring the use of this Article.
7. When deciding whether to recognise the measures set in Article 460
accordance with this Article, the Member State shall take into
consideration the criteria set in paragraph 4. Liquidity
1. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt a delegated
act in accordance with Article 462 to specify in detail the
general requirement set out in Article 412(1). The delegated
8. The Member State authorised to apply the measures may
act adopted in accordance with this paragraph shall be based
ask the ESRB to issue a recommendation as referred to in
on the items to be reported in accordance with Part Six, Title II
Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010 to one or more
and Annex III, shall specify under which circumstances
Member States which do not recognise the measures.
competent authorities have to impose specific in- and outflow
levels on credit institutions in order to capture specific risks to
which they are exposed and shall respect the thresholds set out
9. Before the expiry of the authorisation issued in accordance in paragraph 2.
with paragraph 4, the Member State shall, in consultation with
the ESRB and EBA, review the situation and may adopt, in
accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 4, a 2. The liquidity coverage requirement referred to in
new decision for the extension of the period of application of Article 412 shall be introduced in accordance with the
national measures for one additional year each time. After the following phasing-in:
first extension, the Commission shall in consultation with the
ESRB and EBA review the situation at least annually.
(a) 60 % of the liquidity coverage requirement in 2015;
10. Notwithstanding the procedure as set out in paragraphs (b) 70 % as from 1 January 2016;
3 to 9, Member States shall be allowed to increase the risk
weights beyond those provided in this Regulation by up to
25 %, for those exposures identified in points (vi) and (vii) of (c) 80 % as from 1 January 2017;
paragraph 2(d) of this Article and tighten the large exposure
limit provided in Article 395 by up to 15 % for a period of up
to two years or until the macroprudential or systemic risk (d) 100 % as from 1 January 2018.
ceases to exist if that occurs sooner, provided that the
conditions and notification requirements in paragraph 2 of
For this purpose the Commission shall take into account the
this Article are met.
reports referred to in Article 509(1), (2) and (3) and inter­
national standards developed by international fora as well as
Union specificities.
Article 459
Prudential requirements The Commission shall adopt the delegated act referred to in
paragraph 1 by 30 June 2014. It shall enter into force by
The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in
31 December 2014, but shall not apply before 1 January 2015.
accordance with Article 462, to impose, for a period of one
year, stricter prudential requirements for exposures where this is
necessary to address changes in the intensity of microprudential
Article 461
and macroprudential risks which arise from market devel­
opments in the Union or outside the Union affecting all Review of the phasing-in of the liquidity coverage
Member States, and where the instruments of this Regulation requirement
and Directive 2013/36/EU are not sufficient to address these
risks, in particular upon the recommendation or opinion of the 1. EBA shall, after consulting the ESRB, by 30 June 2016
ESRB or EBA, concerning: report to the Commission on whether the phase-in of the
liquidity coverage requirement as specified in Article 460(2)
should be amended. Such analysis shall take due account of
market and international regulatory developments as well as
(a) the level of own funds laid down in Article 92; Union specificities.
L 176/268 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
EBA shall in its report assess in particular a deferred intro­ Article 463
duction of the 100 % minimum binding standard, until
Objections to regulatory technical standards
1 January 2019. The report shall take into account the
annual reports referred to in Article 509(1), relevant market Where the Commission adopts a regulatory technical standard
data and the recommendations of all competent authorities. pursuant to this Regulation which is the same as the draft
regulatory technical standard submitted by EBA, the period
during which the European Parliament and the Council may
2. Where necessary to address market and other devel­ object to that regulatory technical standard shall be one
opments, the Commission shall be empowered to adopt a month from the date of notification. At the initiative of the
delegated act in accordance with Article 462 to alter the European Parliament or the Council that period shall be
phase-in specified in Article 460 and defer until 2019 the intro­ extended by one month. By way of derogation from the
duction of a 100 % binding minimum standard for the liquidity second subparagraph of Article 13(1) of Regulation (EU)
coverage requirement set out in Article 412(1) and to apply in No 1093/2010, the period during which the European
2018 a 90 % binding minimum standard for the liquidity Parliament or the Council may object to that regulatory
coverage requirement. technical standard may, where appropriate, be further
extended by one month.
For the purposes of assessing the necessity of deferral the
Commission shall take into account the report and assessment Article 464
referred to in paragraph 1.
European Banking Committee
1. The Commission shall be assisted by the European
A delegated act adopted in accordance with this Article shall Banking Committee established by Commission Decision
not apply before 1 January 2018 and shall enter into force by 2004/10/EC ( 1 ). That committee shall be a committee within
30 June 2017. the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011.
Article 462 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of
Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Exercise of the delegation
1. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the
Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
PART TEN
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS, REPORTS, REVIEWS AND
AMENDMENTS
2. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles
456 to 460 shall be conferred for an indeterminate period of TITLE I
time from 31 December 2014.
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
3. The delegation of power referred to in Articles 456 to
Own funds requirements, unrealised gains and losses
460 may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament
measured at fair value and deductions
or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the
delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take S e c t i o n 1
effect the day following the publication of the decision in the
O w n f u n d s r e q u i r e m e n t s
Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified
therein. It shall not affect the validity of the delegated acts
Article 465
already in force.
Own funds requirements
1. By way of derogation from points (a) and (b) of
4. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall Article 92(1) the following own funds requirements shall
notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the apply during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
Council. 2014:
5. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Articles 456 to 460 (a) a Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of a level that falls
shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed by within a range of 4 % to 4,5 %;
the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three
months of notification of that act to the European Parliament
and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the
European Parliament and the Council have both informed the (b) a Tier 1 capital ratio of a level that falls within a range of
Commission that they will not object. That period shall be 5,5 % to 6 %.
extended by three months at the initiative of the European
Parliament or of the Council. ( 1 ) OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 36.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/269
2. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the The treatment set out in the second subparagraph shall be
levels of the Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 capital ratios applied until the Commission has adopted a regulation on the
in the ranges specified in paragraph 1 that institutions shall basis of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 endorsing the Inter­
meet or exceed. national Financial Reporting Standard replacing IAS 39.
Article 466
3. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the
First time application of International Financial Reporting applicable percentage in the ranges specified in points (a) to
Standards (d) of paragraph 2;
By way of derogation from Article 24(2), competent authorities
shall grant institutions which are required to effect the valuation
of assets and off-balance sheet items and the determination of Article 468
own funds in accordance with International Accounting
Unrealised gains measured at fair value
Standards as applicable under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002
for the first time a lead time of 24 months for the implemen­ 1. By way of derogation from Article 35, during the period
tation of the necessary internal processes and technical require­ from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, institutions shall
ments. remove from their Common Equity Tier 1 items the applicable
percentage of unrealised gains related to assets or liabilities
measured at fair value and reported on the balance sheet,
S e c t i o n 2 excluding those referred to in Article 33 and all other unrealised
gains with the exception of those related to investment prop­
U n r e a l i s e d g a i n s a n d l o s s e s m e a s u r e d a t erties reported as part of the profit and loss account. The
f a i r v a l u e resulting residual amount shall not be removed from
Common Equity Tier 1 items.
Article 467
Unrealised losses measured at fair value
1. By way of derogation from Article 35, during the period 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the applicable percentage
from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017 institutions shall shall be 100 % during the period from 1 January 2014 to
include in the calculation of their Common Equity Tier 1 items 31 December 2014, and shall, after that date, fall within the
only the applicable percentage of unrealised losses related to following ranges:
assets or liabilities measured at fair value, and reported on the
balance sheet, excluding those referred to in Article 33 and all
other unrealised losses reported as part of the profit and loss
account. (a) 60 % to 100 % during the period from 1 January 2015 to
31 December 2015;
2. The applicable percentage for the purposes of paragraph 1
shall fall within following ranges:
(b) 40 % to 100 % during the period from 1 January 2016 to
31 December 2016;
(a) 20 % to 100 % during the period from 1 January 2014 to
31 December 2014;
(c) 20 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2017 to
31 December 2017.
(b) 40 % to 100 % during the period from 1 January 2015 to
31 December 2015;
From 1 January 2015, where under Article 467 a competent
authority requires institutions to include in the calculation of
(c) 60 % to 100 % during the period from 1 January 2016 to Common Equity Tier 1 capital 100 % of their unrealised losses
31 December 2016; and measured at fair value, that competent authority may also
permit institutions to include in that calculation 100 % of
their unrealised gains at fair value.
(d) 80 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2017 to
31 December 2017.
From 1 January 2015, where under Article 467 a competent
authority requires institutions to include a percentage of
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the competent auth­ unrealised losses measured at fair value in the calculation of
orities may, in cases where such treatment was applied before Common Equity Tier 1 capital that competent authority may
1 January 2014, allow institutions not to include in any not set an applicable percentage of unrealised gains under
element of own funds unrealised gains or losses on exposures paragraph 2 of this Article that exceeds the applicable
to central governments classified in the "Available for Sale" percentage of unrealised losses set in accordance with
category of EU-endorsed IAS 39. Article 467.
L 176/270 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the (a) the amount of deferred tax assets that are dependent on
applicable percentage of unrealised gains in the ranges future profitability and arise from temporary differences
specified in points (a) to (c) of paragraph 2 that is not referred to in point (a) of Article 470(2);
removed from Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
(b) the sum of the amounts referred to in points (a) and (b) of
Article 470(2).
4. By way of derogation from Article 33(1)(c), during the
period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2017, institutions
shall include in their own funds the applicable percentage, as
specified in Article 478, of the fair value gains and losses from 3. Institutions shall determine the portion of the total
derivative liabilities arising from their own credit risk. residual amount referred to point (d) of paragraph 1 that is
subject to Article 472(11) by dividing the amount specified in
point (a) of this paragraph by the amount specified in point (b)
of this paragraph:
S e c t i o n 3
D e d u c t i o n s
(a) the amount of direct and indirect holdings of the Common
S u b - S e c t i o n 1 Equity Tier 1 instruments referred to in point (b) of
Article 470(2);
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m C o m m o n E q u i t y T i e r 1
i t e m s
Article 469 (b) the sum of the amounts referred to in points (a) and (b) of
Article 470(2).
Deductions from Common Equity Tier 1 items
1. By way of derogation from Article 36(1), during the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, the Article 470
following shall apply:
Exemption from deduction from Common Equity Tier 1
items
1. For the purposes of this Article, relevant Common Equity
(a) institutions shall deduct from Common Equity Tier 1 items
Tier 1 items shall comprise the Common Equity Tier 1 items of
the applicable percentage specified in Article 478 of the
the institution calculated after applying the provisions of
amounts required to be deducted pursuant to points (a) to
Articles 32 to 35 and making the deductions pursuant to
(h) of Article 36(1), excluding deferred tax assets that rely
points (a) to (h), (k)(ii) to (v) and (l) of Article 36(1),
on future profitability and arise from temporary differences;
excluding deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability
and arise from temporary differences.
(b) institutions shall apply the relevant provisions laid down in
Article 472 to the residual amounts of items required to be 2. By way of derogation from Article 48(1), during the
deducted pursuant to points (a) to (h) of Article 36(1), period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, institutions
excluding deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability shall not deduct the items listed in points (a) and (b) of this
and arise from temporary differences; paragraph which in aggregate are equal to or less than 15 % of
relevant Common Equity Tier 1 items of the institution:
(c) institutions shall deduct from Common Equity Tier 1 items (a) deferred tax assets that are dependent on future profitability
the applicable percentage specified in Article 478 of the and arise from temporary differences and in aggregate are
total amount required to be deducted pursuant to points equal to or less than 10 % of relevant Common Equity Tier
(c) and (i) of Article 36(1) after applying Article 470; 1 items;
(b) where an institution has a significant investment in a
(d) institutions shall apply the requirements laid down in
financial sector entity, the direct, indirect and synthetic
Article 472(5) or (11), as applicable, to the total residual
holdings by the institution of the Common Equity Tier 1
amount of items required to be deducted pursuant to points
instruments of that entity that in aggregate are equal to or
(c) and (i) of Article 36(1) after applying Article 470.
less than 10 % of relevant Common Equity Tier 1 items.
2. Institutions shall determine the portion of the total 3. By way of derogation from Article 48(4), the items
residual amount referred to in point (d) of paragraph 1, that exempt from deduction pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
is subject to Article 472(5), by dividing the amount specified in Article shall be risk weighted at 250 %. The items referred to
point (a) of this paragraph by the amount specified in point (b) in point (b) of paragraph 2 of this Article shall be subject to the
of this paragraph: requirements of Title IV of Part Three, as applicable.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/271
Article 471 (a) losses that are material are deducted from Tier 1 items;
Exemption from Deduction of Equity Holdings in
Insurance Companies from Common Equity Tier 1 Items
(b) losses that are not material are not deducted.
1. By way of derogation from Article 49(1), during the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2022,
competent authorities may permit institutions to not deduct 4. Institutions shall deduct the residual amount of the
equity holdings in insurance undertakings, reinsurance under­ intangible assets referred to in point (b) of Article 36(1) from
takings and insurance holding companies where the following Tier 1 items.
conditions are met:
5. The residual amount of the deferred tax assets referred to
in point (c) of Article 36(1) shall not be deducted and shall be
(a) the conditions laid down in points (a), (c) and (e) of
subject to a risk weight of 0 %.
Article 49(1);
6. The residual amount of the items referred to in point (d)
(b) the competent authorities are satisfied with the level of risk of Article 36(1) shall be deducted half from Tier 1 items and
control and financial analysis procedures specifically half from Tier 2 items.
adopted by the institution in order to supervise the
investment in the undertaking or holding company;
7. The residual amount of the assets of a defined benefit
pension fund referred to in point (e) of Article 36(1) shall
not be deducted from any element of own funds and shall be
(c) the equity holdings of the institution in the insurance
included in Common Equity Tier 1 items to the extent that
undertaking, reinsurance undertaking or insurance holding
amount would have been recognised as original own funds in
company do not exceed 15 % of the Common Equity Tier 1
accordance with the national transposition measures for points
instruments issued by that insurance entity as at
(a) to (ca) of Article 57 of Directive 2006/48/EC.
31 December 2012 and during the period from 1 January
2013 to 31 December 2022;
8. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
amount of holdings of own Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
(d) the amount of the equity holding which is not deducted referred to in point (f) of Article 36(1):
does not exceed the amount held in the Common Equity
Tier 1 instruments in the insurance undertaking, reinsurance
undertaking or insurance holding company as at (a) the amount of direct holdings is deducted from Tier 1
31 December 2012. items;
(b) the amount of indirect and synthetic holdings, including
2. The equity holdings which are not deducted pursuant to
own Common Equity Tier 1 instruments that an institution
paragraph 1 shall qualify as exposures and be risk weighted at
could be obliged to purchase by virtue of an existing or
370 %.
contingent contractual obligation, is not deducted and is
subject to a risk weight in accordance with Chapter 2 or
3 of Title II of Part Three and to the requirements laid down
Article 472 in Title IV of Part Three, as applicable.
Items not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1
1. By way of derogation from point (c) of Article 33(1) and 9. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
points (a) to (i) of Article 36(1), during the period from amount of holdings of Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of
1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, institutions shall a financial sector entity where the institution has reciprocal
apply this Article to the residual amounts of items referred to cross holdings with that entity referred to in point (g) of
in Article 468(4) and in points (b) and (d) of Article 469(1), as Article 36(1):
applicable.
(a) where an institution does not have a significant investment
in that financial sector entity, the amount of its holding of
2. The residual amount of the valuation adjustments to
the Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of that entity is
derivative liabilities arising from an institution's own credit
treated as falling under point (h) of Article 36(1);
risk shall not be deducted.
(b) where an institution has a significant investment in that
3. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual financial sector entity, the amount of its holdings of
amount of losses of the current financial year referred to in Common Equity Tier 1 instruments of that entity is
point (a) of Article 36(1): treated as falling under point (i) of Article 36(1).
L 176/272 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
10. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual (b) institutions shall determine the values of the assets of their
amounts of items referred to in point (h) of Article 36(1): defined pension funds or plans, as applicable, according to
the rules set out in Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008. Insti­
tutions shall then deduct from the values of those assets, the
(a) the amounts required to be deducted that relate to direct values of the obligations under the same funds or plans
holdings are deducted half from Tier 1 items and half from determined according to the same accounting rules.
Tier 2 items;
(b) the amounts that relate to indirect and synthetic holdings 3. The amount determined in accordance with paragraph 2
are not deducted and are subject to a risk weights in shall be limited to the amount not required to be deducted from
accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three own funds, prior to 1 January 2014, under national trans­
and to the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part Three, position measures of Directive 2006/48/EC, insofar as those
as applicable. national transposition measures would be eligible for the
treatment set out in Article 481 of this Regulation in the
Member State concerned.
11. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
amounts of the items referred to in point (i) of Article 36(1):
4. The following factors apply:
(a) the amounts required to be deducted that relate to direct
holdings are deducted half from Tier 1 items and half from
Tier 2 items;
(a) 1 in the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
2014;
(b) the amounts that relate to indirect and synthetic holdings
are not deducted and are subject to risk weights in
accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three
and to the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part Three, (b) 0,8 in the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December
as applicable. 2015;
Article 473
(c) 0,6 in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December
Introduction of amendments to IAS 19 2016;
1. By way of derogation from Article 481 during the period
from 1 January 2014 until 31 December 2018, competent
authorities may permit institutions that prepare their accounts (d) 0,4 in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December
in conformity with the international accounting standards 2017;
adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 to add to their
Common Equity Tier 1 capital the applicable amount in
accordance with paragraph 2 or 3 of this Article, as applicable, (e) 0,2 in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December
multiplied by the factor applied in accordance with paragraph 4. 2018.
2. The applicable amount shall be calculated by deducting
from the sum derived in accordance with point (a) the sum 5. Institutions shall disclose the values of assets and liabilities
derived in accordance with point (b): in accordance with paragraph 2 in their published financial
statements.
(a) institutions shall determine the values of the assets of their
defined benefit pension funds or plans, as applicable, in
accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 ( 1 ) as S u b - S e c t i o n 2
amended by Regulation (EU) No 1205/2011 ( 2 ). Institutions
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m A d d i t i o n a l T i e r 1 i t e m s
shall then deduct from the values of these assets the values
of the obligations under the same funds or plans Article 474
determined according to the same accounting rules;
Deductions from Additional Tier 1 items
( 1 ) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 of 3 November 2008 By way of derogation from Article 56, during the period from
adopting certain international accounting standards in accordance 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, the following shall
with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament apply:
and of the Council (OJ L 320, 29.11.2008, p. 1).
( 2 ) Commission Regulation (EU) No 1205/2011 of 22 November 2011
amending Regulation (EC) No 1126/2008 adopting certain inter­
national accounting standards in accordance with Regulation (EC)
(a) institutions shall deduct from Additional Tier 1 items the
No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council as
regards International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 7 (OJ applicable percentage specified in Article 478 of the
L 305, 23.11.2011, p. 16). amounts required to be deducted pursuant to Article 56;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/273
(b) institutions shall apply the requirements laid down in S u b - S e c t i o n 3
Article 475 to the residual amounts of the items required
D e d u c t i o n s f r o m T i e r 2 i t e m s
to be deducted pursuant to Article 56.
Article 476
Article 475 Deductions from Tier 2 items
Items not deducted from Additional Tier 1 items By way of derogation from Article 66, during the period from
1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, the following shall
1. By way of derogation from Article 56, during the period apply:
from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, the requirements
laid down in this Article shall apply to the residual amounts
referred to in point (b) of Article 474.
(a) institutions shall deduct from Tier 2 items the applicable
percentage specified in Article 478 of the amounts required
to be deducted pursuant to Article 66;
2. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
amount of the items referred to in point (a) of Article 56:
(b) institutions shall apply the requirements laid down in
(a) direct holdings of own Additional Tier 1 instruments are Article 477 to the residual amounts required to be
deducted at book value from Tier 1 items; deducted pursuant to Article 66.
(b) indirect and synthetic holdings of own Additional Tier 1 Article 477
instruments, including own Additional Tier 1 instruments
Deductions from Tier 2 items
that an institution could be obliged to purchase by virtue of
an existing or contingent contractual obligation, are not 1. By way of derogation from Article 66, during the period
deducted and are risk weighted in accordance with from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, the requirements
Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three and subject to laid down in this Article shall apply to the residual amounts
the requirements of Title IV of Part Three, as applicable. referred to in point (b) of Article 476.
3. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
2. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
amount of the items referred to in point (b) of Article 56:
amount of items referred to in point (a) of Article 66:
(a) where an institution does not have a significant investment
in a financial sector entity with which it has reciprocal cross (a) direct holdings of own Tier 2 instruments are deducted at
holdings, the amount of its direct, indirect and synthetic book value from Tier 2 items;
holdings of those Additional Tier 1 instruments of that
entity is treated as falling within point (c) of Article 56;
(b) indirect and synthetic holdings of own Tier 2 instruments,
including own Tier 2 instruments that an institution could
(b) where the institution has a significant investment in a be obliged to purchase by virtue of an existing or
financial sector entity with which it has reciprocal cross contingent contractual obligation are not deducted and are
holdings, the amount of its direct, indirect and synthetic risk weighted in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II
holdings of those Additional Tier 1 instruments of that of Part Three and subject to the requirements of Title IV of
entity is treated as falling within point (d) of Article 56. Part Three, as applicable.
4. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
3. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual
amount of the items referred to in points (c) and (d) of
amount of the items referred to in point (b) of Article 66:
Article 56:
(a) where an institution does not have a significant investment
(a) the amount relating to direct holdings required to be
in a financial sector entity with which it has reciprocal cross
deducted in accordance with points (c) and (d) of Article 56
holdings, the amount of its direct, indirect and synthetic
are deducted half from Tier 1 items and half from Tier 2
holdings of the Tier 2 instruments of that entity is treated
items;
as falling within point (c) of Article 66;
(b) the amount relating to indirect and synthetic holdings
required to be deducted in accordance with points (c) and (b) where the institution has a significant investment in a
(d) of Article 56 shall not be deducted and shall be subject financial sector entity with which it has reciprocal cross
to a risk weight in accordance with Chapter 2 or 3 of Title holdings, the amount of direct, indirect and synthetic
II of Part Three and to the requirements of Title IV of Part holdings of the Tier 2 instruments of that financial sector
Three, as applicable. entity are treated as falling within point (d) of Article 66.
L 176/274 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Institutions shall apply the following to the residual (f) 50 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2019 to
amount of the items referred to in points (c) and (d) of 2 January 2020;
Article 66:
(g) 60 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2020 to
(a) the amount relating to direct holdings that is required to be 2 January 2021;
deducted in accordance with points (c) and (d) of Article 66
is deducted half from Tier 1 items and half from Tier 2
items; (h) 70 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2021 to
2 January 2022;
(b) the amount relating to indirect and synthetic holdings that
is required to be deducted in accordance with points (c) and (i) 80 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2022 to
(d) of Article 66 is not be deducted and is subject to a risk 2 January 2023;
weight under Chapter 2 or 3 of Title II of Part Three and
the requirements laid down in Title IV of Part Three, as
applicable. (j) 90 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2023 to
2 January 2024.
S u b - S e c t i o n 4
3. Competent authorities shall determine and publish an
A p p l i c a b l e p e r c e n t a g e s f o r d e d u c t i o n
applicable percentage in the ranges specified in paragraphs 1
Article 478 and 2 for each of the following deductions:
Applicable percentages for deduction from Common
Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 items (a) the individual deductions required pursuant to points (a) to
(h) of Article 36(1), excluding deferred tax assets that rely
1. The applicable percentage for the purposes of
on future profitability and arise from temporary differences;
Article 468(4), points (a) and (c) of Article 469(1), point (a)
of Article 474 and point (a) of Article 476 shall fall within the
following ranges: (b) the aggregate amount of deferred tax assets that rely on
future profitability and arise from temporary differences
and the items referred to in point (i) of Article 36(1) that
(a) 20 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2014 to
is required to be deducted pursuant to Article 48;
31 December 2014;
(b) 40 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2015 to (c) each deduction required pursuant to points (b) to (d) of
31 December 2015; Article 56;
(c) 60 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2016 to (d) each deduction required pursuant to points (b) to (d) of
31 December 2016; Article 66.
(d) 80 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2017 to S e c t i o n 4
31 December 2017.
M i n o r i t y i n t e r e s t a n d A d d i t i o n a l T i e r 1
a n d T i e r 2 i n s t r u m e n t s i s s u e d b y
2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, for the items s u b s i d i a r i e s
referred in point (c) of Article 36(1) that existed prior to …,
the applicable percentage for the purpose of point (c) of Article 479
Article 469(1) shall fall within the following ranges:
Recognition in consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital
of instruments and items that do not qualify as minority
(a) 0 % to 100 % for the period from 1 January 2014 to interests
2 January 2015;
1. By way of derogation from Title II of Part Two, during the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, recognition
(b) 10 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2015 to in consolidated own funds of the items that would qualify as
2 January 2016; consolidated reserves in accordance with national transposition
measures for Article 65 of Directive 2006/48/EC that do not
qualify as consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital for any of
(c) 20 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2016 to
the following reasons shall be determined by the competent
2 January 2017;
authorities in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
Article:
(d) 30 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2017 to
2 January 2018;
(a) the instrument does not qualify as a Common Equity Tier 1
instrument, and the related retained earnings and share
(e) 40 % to 100 % for the period from 2 January 2018 to premium accounts consequently do not qualify as
2 January 2019; consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 items;
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/275
(b) the items do not qualify as a result of Article 81(2); 3. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the
value of the applicable factor in the ranges specified in
paragraph 2.
(c) the items do not qualify because the subsidiary is not an
institution or an entity that is subject by virtue of applicable
national law to the requirements of this Regulation and
Directive 2013/36/EU; S e c t i o n 5
A d d i t i o n a l f i l t e r s a n d d e d u c t i o n s
(d) the items do not qualify because the subsidiary is not
included fully in the consolidation pursuant to Chapter 2 Article 481
of Title II of Part One.
Additional filters and deductions
1. By way of derogation from Articles 32 to 36, 56 and 66,
2. The applicable percentage of the items referred to in
during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017,
paragraph 1 that would have qualified as consolidated
institutions shall make adjustments to include in or deduct from
reserves in accordance with the national transposition
Common Equity Tier 1 items, Tier 1 items, Tier 2 items or own
measures for Article 65 of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify
funds items the applicable percentage of filters or deductions
as consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital.
required under national transposition measures for Articles 57,
61, 63, 63a, 64 and 66 of Directive 2006/48/EC, and for
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, the applicable Articles 13 and 16 of Directive 2006/49/EC, and which are
percentages shall fall within the following ranges: not required in accordance with Part Two of this Regulation.
(a) 0 % to 80 % for the period from 1 January 2014 to
31 December 2014; 2. By way of derogation from Article 36(1)(i) and
Article 49(1) and (3), during the period from the 1 January
(b) 0 % to 60 % for the period from 1 January 2015 to 2014 to 31 December 2014, competent authorities may
31 December 2015; require or permit institutions to apply the methods referred
to in Article 49(1) where the requirements laid down in
points (b) and (e) of Article 49(1) are not met, rather than
(c) 0 % to 40 % for the period from 1 January 2016 to the deduction required pursuant to Article 36(1). In such
31 December 2016; cases, the proportion of holdings of the own funds instruments
of a financial sector entity in which the parent undertaking has
(d) 0 % to 20 % for the period from 1 January 2017 to a significant investment that is not required to be deducted in
31 December 2017. accordance with Article 49(1) shall be determined by the
applicable percentage referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Article. The amount that is not deducted shall be subject to
4. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the
the requirements of Article 49(4), as applicable.
applicable percentage in the ranges specified in paragraph 3.
Article 480
3. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the applicable percentage
Recognition in consolidated own funds of minority shall fall within the following ranges:
interests and qualifying Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital
1. By way of derogation from point (b) of Article 84(1),
point (b) of Article 85(1) and point (b) of Article 87(1), (a) 0 % to 80 % for the period from 1 January 2014 to
during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 31 December 2014;
2017, the percentages referred to in those Articles shall be
multiplied by an applicable factor.
(b) 0 % to 60 % for the period from 1 January 2015 to
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the applicable factor 31 December 2015;
shall fall within the following ranges:
(a) 0,2 to 1 in the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December (c) 0 % to 40 % for the period from 1 January 2016 to
2014; 31 December 2016;
(b) 0,4 to 1 in the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December
2015;
(d) 0 % to 20 % for the period from 1 January 2017 to
31 December 2017.
(c) 0,6 to 1 in the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December
2016; and
4. For the purpose of paragraph 2, the applicable percentage
(d) 0,8 to 1 in the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December shall fall between 0 % and 50 % for the period from 1 January
2017. 2014 to 31 December 2014.
L 176/276 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
5. For each filter or deduction referred to in paragraphs 1 be issued prior to 30 June 2012 and in conjunction with
and 2, competent authorities shall determine and publish the those parts that are subscribed by the Member State;
applicable percentages in the ranges specified in paragraphs 3
and 4.
(c) the instruments were considered compatible with the
internal market by the Commission under Article 107
TFEU;
6. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities
shall determine whether adjustments made to own funds, or
elements thereof, in accordance with national transposition (d) in cases where the instruments are subscribed by both the
measures for Directive 2006/48/EC or Directive 2006/49/EC Member State and private investors, where there is a partial
that are not included in Part Two of this Regulation are, for redemption of the instruments subscribed by the Member
the purposes of this Article, to be made to Common Equity Tier State, a corresponding share of the privately subscribed part
1 items, Additional Tier 1 items, Tier 1 items, Tier 2 items or of the instruments shall be grandfathered in accordance
own funds. with Article 484. When all the instruments subscribed by
the Member State have been redeemed, the remaining
instruments subscribed by private investors shall be grand­
fathered in accordance with Article 484.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2014.
2. Instruments that qualified in accordance with the national
transposition measures for point (a) of Article 57 of Directive
2006/48/EC shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
notwithstanding either of the following:
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010.
(a) the conditions laid down in Article 28 of this Regulation are
not met;
Article 482
(b) the instruments were issued by an undertaking referred to in
Scope of application for derivatives transactions with
Article 27 of this Regulation and the conditions laid down
pension funds
in Article 28 of this Regulation or, where applicable,
In respect of those transactions referred to in Article 89 of Article 29 of this Regulation are not met.
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and entered into with a
pension scheme arrangement as defined in Article 2 of that
Regulation, institutions shall not calculate own funds 3. Instruments referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1 of this
requirements for CVA risk as provided for in Article 382(4)(c) Article that do not qualify under national transposition
of this Regulation. measures for point (a) of Article 57 of Directive 2006/48/EC
shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments notwith­
standing the requirements of point (a) or (b) of paragraph 2
of this Article not being met, provided that the requirements of
CHAPTER 2
paragraph 8 of this Article are met.
Grandfathering of capital instruments
S e c t i o n 1
Instruments that qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 pursuant to
I n s t r u m e n t s c o n s t i t u t i n g S t a t e a i d the first subparagraph may not qualify as Additional Tier 1
instruments or Tier 2 instruments under paragraph 5 or 7.
Article 483
Grandfathering of State aid instruments
4. Instruments that qualified in accordance with the national
1. By way of derogation from Articles 26 to 29, 51, 52, 62
transposition measures for point (ca) of Article 57 and for
and 63 during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
Article 66(1) of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify as
2017, this Article applies to capital instruments and items
Additional Tier 1 instruments notwithstanding the conditions
where the following conditions are met:
laid down in Article 52(1) of this Regulation not being met.
(a) the instruments were issued prior to 1 January 2014; 5. Instruments referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1 of this
Article that do not qualify under the national transposition
measures for point (ca) of Article 57 of Directive 2006/48/EC
shall qualify as Additional Tier 1 instruments notwithstanding
(b) the instruments were issued within the context of recap­ the conditions laid down in Article 52(1) of this Regulation not
italisation measures pursuant to State aid rules. Insofar as being met, provided that the requirements of paragraph 8 of
part of the instruments are privately subscribed, they must this Article are met.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/277
Instruments that qualify as Additional Tier 1 instruments of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1
pursuant to the first subparagraph may not qualify as items notwithstanding that capital not meeting the conditions
Common Equity Tier 1 instruments or Tier 2 instruments laid down in Article 28 or, where applicable, Article 29 of this
under paragraph 3 or 7. Regulation.
6. Items that qualified in accordance with national trans­ 4. Subject to the limit specified Article 486(3) of this Regu­
position measures for points (f), (g) or (h) of Article 57 and lation, instruments, and the related share premium accounts,
for Article 66(1) of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify as Tier 2 that qualified as original own funds under national transposition
instruments notwithstanding the items not being referred to in measures for point (ca) of Article 57 and Article 154(8) and (9)
Article 62 of this Regulation or the conditions laid down in of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify as Additional Tier 1 items,
Article 63 of this Regulation not being met. notwithstanding the conditions laid down in Article 52 of this
Regulation not being met.
7. Instruments referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1 of this
Article that do not qualify under the national transposition 5. Subject to the limits specified in Article 486(4) of this
measures for point (f), (g) or (h) of Article 57 and for Regulation, items, and the related share premium accounts,
Article 66(1) of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify as Tier 2 that qualified under national transposition measures for points
instruments notwithstanding the items not being referred to in (e), (f), (g) or (h) of Article 57 of Directive 2006/48/EC shall
Article 62 of this Regulation or the conditions laid down in qualify as Tier 2 items, notwithstanding those items not being
Article 63 of this Regulation not being met, provided the included in Article 62 of this Regulation or the conditions laid
conditions in paragraph 8 of this Article are met. down in Article 63 of this Regulation not being met.
Instruments that qualify as Tier 2 instruments pursuant to the Article 485
first subparagraph may not qualify as Common Equity Tier 1
Eligibility for inclusion in the Common Equity Tier 1 of
instruments or Additional Tier 1 instruments under paragraph 3
share premium accounts related to items that qualified as
or 5.
own funds under national transposition measures for
Directive 2006/48/EC
8. Instruments referred to paragraphs 3, 5 and 7 may qualify 1. This Article shall apply only to instruments that were
as own funds instruments referred to in those paragraphs only issued prior to 31 December 2010 and are not those referred
where the condition in point (a) of paragraph 1 is met and to in Article 483(1).
where they are issued by institutions that are incorporated in
a Member State that is subject to an Economic Adjustment
Programme, and the issuance of those instruments is agreed 2. Share premium accounts related to capital within the
or eligible under that programme. meaning of Article 22 of Directive 86/635/EEC, that qualified
as original own funds under the national transposition measures
for point (a) of Article 57 of Directive 2006/48/EC shall qualify
S e c t i o n 2 as Common Equity Tier 1 items if they meet the conditions laid
down in points (i) and (j) of Article 28 of this Regulation.
I n s t r u m e n t s n o t c o n s t i t u t i n g s t a t e a i d
S u b - S e c t i o n 1
Article 486
G r a n d f a t h e r i n g e l i g i b i l i t y a n d l i m i t s
Limits for grandfathering of items within Common Equity
Article 484
Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 items
Eligibility for grandfathering of items that qualified as own
1. During the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
funds under national transposition measures for Directive
2021, the extent to which instruments and items referred to in
2006/48/EC
Article 484 shall qualify as own funds shall be limited in
1. This Article shall apply only to instruments and items that accordance with this Article.
were issued or were eligible as own funds prior to 31 December
2011 and are not those referred to in Article 483(1).
2. The amount of items referred to in Article 484(3) that
shall qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 items is limited to the
2. By way of derogation from Articles 26 to 29, 51, 52, 62 applicable percentage of the sum of the amounts specified in
and 63, this Article shall apply during the period from points (a) and (b) of this paragraph:
1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021.
(a) the nominal amount of capital referred to in Article 484(3)
3. Subject to Article 485 of this Regulation and to the limit that were in issue on 31 December 2012;
specified in Article 486(2) thereof, capital within the meaning
of Article 22 of Directive 86/635/EEC, and the related share
premium accounts, that qualified as original own funds under (b) the share premium accounts related to the items referred to
the national transposition measures for point (a) of Article 57 in point (a).
L 176/278 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
3. The amount of items referred to in Article 484(4) that position measures for point (a) of Article 66(1) of
shall qualify as Additional Tier 1 items is limited to the Directive 2006/48/EC;
applicable percentage multiplied by the result of subtracting
from the sum of the amounts specified in points (a) and (b)
(f) the share premium accounts related to the instruments
of this paragraph the sum of the amounts specified in points (c)
referred to in point (e);
to (f) of this paragraph:
(g) the nominal amount of instruments referred to in
(a) the nominal amount of instruments referred to in
Article 484(5) that were in issue on 31 December 2012
Article 484(4), that remained in issue on 31 December
that do not qualify as Tier 2 items pursuant to
2012;
Article 490(4);
(b) the share premium accounts related to the instruments (h) the share premium accounts related to the instruments
referred to in point (a); referred to in point (g).
(c) the amount of instruments referred to in Article 484(4) 5. For the purposes of this Article, the applicable percentages
which on 31 December 2012 exceeded the limits referred to in paragraphs 2 to 4 shall fall within the following
specified in the national transposition measures for point ranges:
(a) of Article 66(1) and Article 66(1a) of Directive
2006/48/EC;
(a) 60 % to 80 % during the period from 1 January 2014 to
31 December 2014;
(d) the share premium accounts related to the instruments
referred to in point (c);
(b) 40 % to 70 % during the period from 1 January 2015 to
31 December 2015;
(e) the nominal amount of instruments referred to
Article 484(4) that were in issue on 31 December 2012 (c) 20 % to 60 % during the period from 1 January 2016 to
but do not qualify as Additional Tier 1 instruments 31 December 2016;
pursuant to Article 489(4);
(d) 0 % to 50 % during the period from 1 January 2017 to
(f) the share premium accounts related to the instruments 31 December 2017;
referred to in point (e).
(e) 0 % to 40 % during the period from 1 January 2018 to
4. The amount of items referred to in Article 484(5) that 31 December 2018;
shall qualify as Tier 2 items is limited to the applicable
percentage of the result of subtracting from the sum of the (f) 0 % to 30 % during the period from 1 January 2019 to
amounts specified in points (a) to (d) of this paragraph the 31 December 2019;
sum of amounts specified in points (e) to (h) of this paragraph:
(g) 0 % to 20 % during the period from 1 January 2020 to
(a) the nominal amount of instruments referred to in 31 December 2020;
Article 484(5) that remained in issue on 31 December
2012;
(h) 0 % to 10 % during the period from 1 January 2021 to
31 December 2021.
(b) the share premium accounts related to the instruments
referred to in point (a);
6. Competent authorities shall determine and publish the
applicable percentages in the ranges specified in paragraph 5.
(c) the nominal amount of subordinated loan capital that
remained in issue on 31 December, reduced by the Article 487
amount required pursuant to national transposition
measures for point (c) of Article 64(3) of Directive Items excluded from grandfathering in Common Equity
2006/48/EC; Tier 1 or Additional Tier 1 items in other elements of
own funds
1. By way of derogation from Articles 51, 52, 62 and 63,
(d) the nominal amount of items referred to in Article 484(5),
during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021,
other than the instruments and subordinated loan capital
institutions may treat as items referred to in Article 484(4),
referred to in points (a) and (c) of this paragraph, that
capital, and the related share premium accounts, referred to in
were in issue on 31 December 2012;
Article 484(3) that are excluded from Common Equity Tier 1
items because they exceed the applicable percentage specified in
(e) the nominal amount of instruments and items referred to in Article 486(2), to the extent that the inclusion of that capital
Article 484(5) that were in issue on 31 December 2012 and the related share premium accounts, does not exceed the
that exceeded the limits specified in the national trans­ applicable percentage limit referred to in Article 486(3).
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/279
2. By way of derogation from Articles 51, 52, 62 and 63, 2. The instruments shall qualify as Additional Tier 1
during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021, instruments provided the following conditions are met:
institutions may treat the following as items referred to in
Article 484(5), to the extent that their inclusion does not
exceed the applicable percentage limit referred to in (a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
Article 486(4): to redeem only prior to 1 January 2013;
(b) the institution did not exercise the call;
(a) capital, and the related share premium accounts, referred to
in Article 484(3) that are excluded from Common Equity
(c) the conditions laid down in Article 52 are met from
Tier 1 items because they exceed the applicable percentage
1 January 2013.
specified in Article 486(2);
3. The instruments shall qualify as Additional Tier 1
instruments with their recognition reduced in accordance with
(b) instruments, and the related share premium accounts, Article 484(4) until the date of their effective maturity and
referred to in Article 484(4) that exceed the applicable thereafter shall qualify as Additional Tier 1 items without
percentage referred to in Article 486(3). limit provided:
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to to redeem only on or after 1 January 2013;
specify the conditions for treating own funds instruments
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 as falling under Article 486(4)
(b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
or (5) during the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
effective maturity of the instruments;
2021.
(c) the conditions laid down in Article 52 are met from the
date of the effective maturity of the instruments.
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
the Commission by 1 February 2014.
4. The instruments shall not qualify as Additional Tier 1
instruments, and shall not be subject to Article 484(4), from
1 January 2014 where the following conditions are met:
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) (a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
No 1093/2010. to redeem between 31 December 2011 and 1 January
2013;
(b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
Article 488
effective maturity of the instruments;
Amortisation of items grandfathered as Tier 2 items
The items referred to in Article 484(5) that qualify as Tier 2 (c) the conditions laid down in Article 52 are not met from the
items referred to in Article 484(5) or Article 486(4) shall be date of the effective maturity of the instruments.
subject to the requirements laid down in Article 64.
5. The instruments shall qualify as Additional Tier 1
instruments with their recognition reduced in accordance with
S u b - S e c t i o n 2 Article 484(4) until the date of their effective maturity, and shall
not qualify as Additional Tier 1 instruments thereafter, where
I n c l u s i o n o f i n s t r u m e n t s w i t h a c a l l a n d
the following conditions are met:
i n c e n t i v e t o r e d e e m i n A d d i t i o n a l T i e r 1
a n d T i e r 2 i t e m s
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
Article 489
to redeem on or after 1 January 2013;
Hybrid instruments with a call and incentive to redeem
1. By way of derogation from Articles 51 and 52, during the (b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021, effective maturity of the instruments;
instruments referred to in Article 484(4) that include in their
terms and conditions a call with an incentive for them to be
redeemed by the institution shall be subject to the requirements (c) the conditions laid down in Article 52 are not met from the
laid down in paragraphs 2 to 7 of this Article. date of the effective maturity of the instruments.
L 176/280 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
6. The instruments shall qualify as Additional Tier 1 (a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
instruments in accordance with Article 484(4) where the to redeem only between 31 December 2011 and 1 January
following conditions are met: 2013;
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive (b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
to redeem only prior to or on 31 December 2011; effective maturity of the items;
(c) the conditions laid down in Article 63 are not met from the
(b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
date of the effective maturity of the items.
effective maturity of the instruments;
5. The items shall qualify as Tier 2 items with their recog­
(c) the conditions laid down in Article 52 were not met from
nition reduced in accordance with Article 484(5) until the date
the date of the effective maturity of the instruments.
of their effective maturity, and shall not qualify as Tier 2 items
thereafter, where:
Article 490
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
Tier 2 items with an incentive to redeem
to redeem on or after 1 January 2013;
1. By way of derogation from Articles 62 and 63, during the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021, items
referred to in Article 484(5) that qualified under the national (b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of their
transposition measures for point (f) or (h) of Article 57 of effective maturity;
Directive 2006/48/EC and include in their terms and conditions
a call with an incentive for them to be redeemed by the insti­
tution shall be subject to the requirements laid down in para­ (c) the conditions set out in Article 63 are not met from the
graphs 2 to 7 of this Article. date of effective maturity of the items.
6. The items shall qualify as Tier 2 items in accordance with
2. The items shall qualify as Tier 2 instruments provided:
Article 484(5) where:
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
to redeem only prior to 1 January 2013;
to redeem only prior to or on 31 December 2011;
(b) the institution did not exercise the call; (b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
effective maturity of the items;
(c) from 1 January 2013 the conditions laid down in Article 63
are met. (c) the conditions laid down in Article 63 are not met from the
date of the effective maturity of the items.
3. The items shall qualify as Tier 2 items in accordance with
Article 491
Article 484(5) until the date of their effective maturity, and shall
qualify thereafter as Tier 2 items without limit, provided the Effective maturity
following conditions are met:
For the purposes of Articles 489 and 490, effective maturity
shall be determined as follows:
(a) the institution was able to exercise a call with an incentive
to redeem only on or after 1 January 2013;
(a) for the items referred to in paragraphs 3 and 5 of those
Articles, it is the date of the first call with an incentive to
redeem occurring on or after 1 January 2013;
(b) the institution did not exercise the call on the date of the
effective maturity of the items;
(b) for the items referred to in paragraph 4 of those Articles, it
is the date of the first call with an incentive to redeem
(c) the conditions laid down in Article 63 are met from the occurring between 31 December 2011 and 1 January 2013;
date of the effective maturity of the items.
(c) for the items referred to in paragraph 6 of those Articles, it
4. The items shall not qualify as Tier 2 items from 1 January is the date of the first call with an incentive to redeem prior
2013 where the following conditions are met: to 31 December 2011.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/281
CHAPTER 3 CHAPTER 4
Transitional provisions for disclosure of own funds Large exposures, own funds requirements, leverage and the
Basel I floor
Article 492
Article 493
Disclosure of own funds
Transitional provisions for large exposures
1. Institutions shall apply this Article during the period from
1 January 2014 to 31 December 2021. 1. The provisions on large exposures as laid down in Articles
387 to 403 shall not apply to investment firms whose main
business consists exclusively of the provision of investment
2. During the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
services or activities in relation to the financial instruments
2015, institutions shall disclose the extent to which the level of
set out in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C of Annex I
Common Equity Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 capital exceed the
to Directive 2004/39/EC and to whom Council Directive
requirements laid down in Article 465.
93/22/EEC of 10 May 1993 on investment services in the
securities field ( 1) did not apply on 31 December 2006. This
exemption is available until 31 December 2017 or the date of
3. During the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
entry into force of any amendments pursuant to paragraph 2 of
2017, institutions shall disclose the following additional
this Article, whichever is the earlier.
information about their own funds:
(a) the nature and effect on Common Equity Tier 1 capital, 2. By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall, on the
Additional Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital and own funds of basis of public consultations and in the light of discussions
the individual filters and deductions applied in accordance with the competent authorities, report to the European
with Articles 467 to 470, 474, 476 and 479; Parliament and the Council on:
(b) the amounts of minority interests and Additional Tier 1 and (a) an appropriate regime for the prudential supervision of
Tier 2 instruments, and related retained earnings and share investment firms whose main business consists exclusively
premium accounts, issued by subsidiaries that are included of the provision of investment services or activities in
in consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional relation to the commodity derivatives or derivatives
Tier 1 capital, Tier 2 capital and own funds in accordance contracts set out in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C
with Section 4 of Chapter 1; of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC;
(c) the effect on Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier
(b) the desirability of amending Directive 2004/39/EC to create
1 capital, Tier 2 capital and own funds of the individual
a further category of investment firm whose main business
filters and deductions applied in accordance with
consists exclusively of the provision of investment services
Article 481;
or activities in relation to the financial instruments set out
in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C of Annex I to
Directive 2004/39/EC relating to energy supplies.
(d) the nature and amount of items that qualify as Common
Equity Tier 1 items, Tier 1 items and Tier 2 items by virtue
of applying the derogations specified in Section 2 of
On the basis of this report, the Commission may submit
Chapter 2.
proposals for amendments to this Regulation
4. During the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December
2021, institutions shall disclose the amount of instruments that 3. By way of derogation from Article 400(2) and (3),
qualify as Common Equity Tier 1 instruments, Additional Tier 1 Member States may, for a transitional period until the entry
instruments and Tier 2 instruments by virtue of applying into force of any legal act following the review in accordance
Article 484. with Article 507, but not after 2 January 2029, fully or partially
exempt the following exposures from the application of
Article 395(1):
5. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical standards
to specify uniform templates for disclosure made in accordance
with this Article. The templates shall include the items listed in (a) covered bonds falling within Article 129(1), (3) and (6);
points (a), (b), (d) and (e) of Article 437(1), as amended by
Chapters 1 and 2 of this Title.
(b) asset items constituting claims on regional governments or
local authorities of Member States where those claims
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards
would be assigned a 20 % risk weight under Part Three,
to the Commission by 1 February 2014.
Title II, Chapter 2 and other exposures to or guaranteed
by those regional governments or local authorities, claims
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ on which would be assigned a 20 % risk weight under Part
menting technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph Three, Title II, Chapter 2;
in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010. ( 1 ) OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 27.
L 176/282 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(c) exposures, including participations or other kinds of (j) legally required guarantees used when a mortgage loan
holdings, incurred by an institution to its parent under­ financed by issuing mortgage bonds is paid to the
taking, to other subsidiaries of that parent undertaking or mortgage borrower before the final registration of the
to its own subsidiaries, in so far as those undertakings are mortgage in the land register, provided the guarantee is
covered by the supervision on a consolidated basis to which not used as reducing the risk in calculating the risk-
the institution itself is subject, in accordance with this Regu­ weighted exposure amounts;
lation, Directive 2002/87/EC or with equivalent standards in
force in a third country. Exposures that do not meet those
criteria, whether or not exempted from Article 395(1) of
(k) assets items constituting claims on and other exposures to
this Regulation, shall be treated as exposures to a third
recognised exchanges.
party;
Article 494
(d) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures,
Transitional provisions for eligible capital
including participations or other kinds of holdings, to
regional or central credit institutions with which the credit By way of derogation from point (71)(b) of Article 4(1), eligible
institution belongs to a network in accordance with legal or capital may include Tier 2 capital up to the following amounts:
statutory provisions and which are responsible, under those
provisions, for cash-clearing operations within the network;
(a) 100 % of Tier 1 capital during the period from 1 January
2014 to 31 December 2014;
(e) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to
credit institutions incurred by credit institutions, one of
which operates on a non-competitive basis and provides (b) 75 % of Tier 1 capital during the period from 1 January
or guarantees loans under legislative programmes or its 2015 to 31 December 2015;
statutes, to promote specified sectors of the economy
under some form of government oversight and restrictions
on the use of the loans, provided that the respective
(c) 50 % of Tier 1 capital during the period from 1 January
exposures arise from such loans that are passed on to the
2016 to 31 December 2016.
beneficiaries via credit institutions or from the guarantees of
these loans;
Article 495
(f) asset items constituting claims on and other exposures to Treatment of equity exposures under the IRB Approach
institutions, provided that those exposures do not constitute
1. By way of derogation from Chapter 3 of Part Three, until
such institutions' own funds, do not last longer than the
31 December 2017, the competent authorities may exempt
following business day and are not denominated in a major
from the IRB treatment certain categories of equity exposures
trading currency;
held by institutions and EU subsidiaries of institutions in that
Member State as at 31 December 2007. The competent
authority shall publish the categories of equity exposures
which benefit from that treatment in accordance with
(g) asset items constituting claims on central banks in the form
Article 143 of Directive 2013/36/EU.
of required minimum reserves held at those central banks
which are denominated in their national currencies;
The exempted position shall be measured as the number of
shares as at 31 December 2007 and any additional share
(h) asset items constituting claims on central governments in arising directly as a result of owning those holdings, provided
the form of statutory liquidity requirements held in they do not increase the proportional share of ownership in a
government securities which are denominated and funded portfolio company.
in their national currencies provided that, at the discretion
of the competent authority, the credit assessment of those
central governments assigned by a nominated ECAI is
If an acquisition increases the proportional share of ownership
investment grade;
in a specific holding the part of the holding which constitutes
the excess shall not be subject to the exemption. Nor shall the
exemption apply to holdings that were originally subject to the
exemption, but have been sold and then bought back.
(i) 50 % of medium/low risk off-balance sheet documentary
credits and of medium/low risk off-balance sheet undrawn
credit facilities referred to in Annex I and subject to the
competent authorities' agreement, 80 % of guarantees Equity exposures subject to this provision shall be subject to the
other than loan guarantees which have a legal or regulatory capital requirements calculated in accordance with the Stan­
basis and are given for their members by mutual guarantee dardised Approach under Part Three, Title II, Chapter 2 and
schemes possessing the status of credit institutions; the requirements set out in Title IV of Part Three, as applicable.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/283
Competent authorities shall notify the Commission and EBA of Article 497
the implementation of this paragraph.
Own funds requirements for exposures to CCPs
1. Up until 15 months after the date of entry into force of
2. In the calculation of risk weighted exposure amounts for
the latest of the eleven regulatory technical standards referred to
the purposes of Article 114(4), until 31 December 2015 the
at the end of the first subparagraph of Article 89(3) of Regu­
same risk weight shall be assigned in relation to exposures to
lation (EU) 648/2012, or until a decision is made under
the central governments or central banks of Member States
Article 14 of that Regulation on the authorisation of the
denominated and funded in the domestic currency of any
CCP, whichever date is earlier, an institution may consider
Member State as would be applied to such exposures
denominated and funded in their domestic currency.
that CCP to be a Q
C CP
, provided that the condition laid down
in the first part of that subparagraph has been met.
3. EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
specify the conditions according to which competent authorities 2. Up until 15 months after the date of entry into force of
shall afford the exemption referred to in paragraph 1. the latest of the ten regulatory technical standards referred to at
the end of the second subparagraph of Article 89(3) of Regu­
lation (EU) 648/2012, or until a decision is made under
EBA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to
Article 25 of that Regulation on the recognition of the CCP
the Commission by 30 June 2014.
established in a third country, whichever date is earlier, an
institution may consider that CCP to be a Q
CCP
,
Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory
technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in
accordance with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) 3. The Commission may adopt an implementing act under
No 1093/2010. Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 extending the tran­
sitional provisions in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article by a
further six months, in exceptional circumstances where it is
Article 496
necessary and proportionate to avoid disruption to international
Own funds requirements for covered bonds financial markets.
1. Until 31 December 2017 competent authorities may
waive in full or in part the 10 % limit for senior units issued
by French Fonds Communs de Créances or by securitisation 4. Up until the deadlines defined in paragraphs 1 and 2, and
entities which are equivalent to French Fonds Communs de extended under paragraph 3, as applicable, where a CCP does
Créances laid down in points (d) and (e) of Article 129(1), not have a default fund and it does not have in place a binding
provided that both of the following conditions are fulfilled: arrangement with its clearing members that allows it to use all
or part of the initial margin received from its clearing members
as if they were pre-funded contributions, an institution shall
(a) the securitised residential or commercial immovable substitute the right formula for calculating the own funds
property exposures were originated by a member of the requirement (K
i
) in Article 308(2) with the following one:
same consolidated group of which the issuer of the
covered bonds is a member, or by an entity affiliated to
the same central body to which the issuer of the covered K
i
1 β ·
N
·
IM
i · K
C M
bonds is affiliated, where that common group membership
¼
Í
þ N – 2
Î
IM
or affiliation shall be determined at the time the senior units
where
are made collateral for covered bonds;
(b) a member of the same consolidated group of which the IM
i
= the initial margin posted to the CCP by clearing member i
issuer of the covered bonds is a member, or an entity
affiliated to the same central body to which the issuer of
the covered bonds is affiliated, retains the whole first loss
tranche supporting those senior units. IM = the total amount of initial margin communicated to the
institution by the CCP.
2. Until 31 December 2014, for the purposes of point (c) of
Article 129(1), institutions' senior unsecured exposures which
Article 498
qualified for a 20 % risk weight under national law before the
entry into force of this Regulation shall be considered to qualify Exemption for Commodities dealers
for credit quality step 1.
1. The provisions on own funds requirements as set out in
this Regulation shall not apply to investment firms whose main
3. Until 31 December 2014, for the purposes of business consists exclusively of the provision of investment
Article 129(5), institutions' senior unsecured exposures which services or activities in relation to the financial instruments
qualified for a 20 % risk weight under national law before the set out in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C of Annex I
entry into force of this Regulation shall be considered to qualify to Directive 2004/39/EC and to whom Directive 93/22/EEC did
for a 20 % risk weight. not apply on 31 December 2006.
L 176/284 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This exemption shall apply until 31 December 2017 or the date competent authorities may permit institutions to calculate the
of entry into force of any amendments pursuant to paragraphs end-of-quarter leverage ratio where they consider that insti­
2 and 3, whichever is the earlier. tutions may not have data of sufficiently good quality to
calculate a leverage ratio that is an arithmetic mean of the
monthly leverage ratios over a quarter.
2. By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall, on the
basis of public consultations and in the light of discussions
with the competent authorities, report to the European
Article 500
Parliament and the Council on:
Transitional provisions – Basel I floor
1. Until 31 December 2017, institutions calculating risk-
(a) an appropriate regime for the prudential supervision of
weighted exposure amounts in accordance with Part Three,
investment firms whose main business consists exclusively
Title II, Chapter 3 and institutions using the Advanced
of the provision of investment services or activities in
Measurement Approaches as specified in Part Three, Title III,
relation to the commodity derivatives or derivatives
Chapter 4 for the calculation of their own funds requirements
contracts set out in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C
for operational risk shall meet both of the following require­
of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC;
ments:
(b) the desirability of amending Directive 2004/39/EC to create
a further category of investment firm whose main business (a) they shall hold own funds as required by Article 92;
consists exclusively of the provision of investment services
or activities in relation to the financial instruments set out
in points 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of Section C of Annex I to
Directive 2004/39/EC relating to energy supplies, including
(b) they shall hold own funds which are at all times more than
electricity, coal, gas and oil.
or equal to 80 % of the total minimum amount of own
funds that the institution would be required to hold under
Article 4 of Directive 93/6/EEC as that Directive and
3. On the basis of the report referred to in paragraph 2, the Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of
Commission may submit proposals for amendments to this the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up
Regulation. and pursuit of the business of credit institutions ( 1 ) stood
prior to 1 January 2007.
Article 499
Leverage 2. Subject to the approval of the competent authorities, the
amount referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 may be replaced
1. By way of derogation from Articles 429 and 430, during
by a requirement to hold own funds which are at all times more
the period between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2021,
than or equal to 80 % of the own funds that the institution
institutions shall calculate and report the leverage ratio by using
would be required to hold under Article 92 calculating risk
both of the following as the capital measure:
weighted exposure amounts in accordance with Part Three,
Title II, Chapter 2, and Part Three, Title III, Chapter 2 or 3,
as applicable, instead of in accordance with Part Three, Title II,
(a) Tier 1 capital; Chapter 3, or Part Three, Title III, Chapter 4, as applicable.
(b) Tier 1 capital, subject to the derogations laid down in
3. A credit institution may apply paragraph 2 only if it
Chapters 1 and 2 of this Title.
started to use the IRB Approach or the Advanced Measurements
Approaches for the calculation of its capital requirements on or
after 1 January 2010.
2. By way of derogation from Article 451(1), institutions
may choose whether to disclose the information on the
leverage ratio based on either just one or both of the definitions
of the capital measure specified in points (a) and (b) of
4. Compliance with the requirements of point (b) of
paragraph 1 of this Article. Where institutions change their
paragraph 1 shall be on the basis of amounts of own funds
decision on which leverage ratio to disclose, the first disclosure
fully adjusted to reflect differences in the calculation of own
that occurs after such change shall contain a reconciliation of
funds under Directive 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC as
the information on all leverage ratios disclosed up to the
those Directives stood prior to 1 January 2007 and the calcu­
moment of the change.
lation of own funds under this Regulation deriving from the
separate treatments of expected loss and unexpected loss under
Part Three, Title II, Chapter 3, of this Regulation.
3. By way of derogation from Article 429(2), during the
period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017, ( 1 ) OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/285
5. The competent authorities may, after having consulted (a) analysis of the evolution of the lending trends and
EBA, waive the application of point (b) of paragraph 1 to conditions for SMEs over the period referred to in
institutions provided that all the requirements for the Internal paragraph 4;
Ratings Based Approach set out in Part Three, Title II, Chapter
3, Section 6 or the qualifying criteria for the use of the
Advanced Measurement Approach set out in Part Three, Title
(b) analysis of effective riskiness of Union SMEs over a full
III, Chapter 4, as applicable, are met.
economic cycle;
6. The Commission shall by 1 January 2017 submit a report
to the European Parliament and the Council on whether it is (c) the consistency of own funds requirements laid down in
appropriate to extend the application of the Basel I floor this Regulation for credit risk on exposures to SMEs with
beyond 31 December 2017 to ensure that there is a backstop the outcomes of the analysis under points (a) and (b).
to internal models, taking into account international devel­
opments and internationally agreed standards. That report
shall be accompanied by a legislative proposal if appropriate.
TITLE II
REPORTS AND REVIEWS
Article 501
Article 502
Capital requirements deduction for credit risk on
exposures to SMEs Cyclicality of capital requirements
1. Capital requirements for credit risk on exposures to SMEs The Commission, in cooperation with EBA, ESRB and the
shall be multiplied by the factor 0,7619. Member States, and taking into account the opinion of the
ECB, shall periodically monitor whether this Regulation taken
as a whole, together with Directive 2013/36/EU has significant
2. For the purpose of this Article: effects on the economic cycle and, in the light of that examin­
ation, shall consider whether any remedial measures are
justified. By 31 December 2013, EBA shall report to the
(a) the exposure shall be included either in the retail or in the Commission if and how methodologies of institutions under
corporates or secured by mortgages on immovable property the IRB Approach should converge with a view to more
classes. Exposures in default shall be excluded; comparable capital requirements while mitigating pro-cyclicality.
(b) an SME is defined in accordance with Commission Recom­
mendation 2003/361/EC of 6 May 2003 concerning the Based on that analysis and taking into account the opinion of
definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( 1) . the ECB, the Commission shall draw up a biennial report and
Among the criteria listed in Article 2 of the Annex to that submit it to the European Parliament and to the Council,
Recommendation only the annual turnover shall be taken together with any appropriate proposals. Contributions from
into account; credit taking and credit lending parties shall be adequately
acknowledged when the report is drawn up.
(c) the total amount owed to the institution and parent under­
takings and its subsidiaries, including any exposure in
By 31 December 2014 the Commission shall review and report
default, by the obligor client or group of connected
on the application of Article 33(1)(c) and shall submit that
clients, but excluding claims or contingent claims secured
report to the European Parliament and the Council, together
on residential property collateral, shall not, to the
with a legislative proposal if appropriate.
knowledge of the institution, exceed EUR 1,5 million. The
institution shall take reasonable steps to acquire this
knowledge.
With respect to the potential elimination of the Article 33(1)(c)
and its potential application at the Union level, the review shall
3. Institutions shall report to competent authorities every in particular ensure that sufficient safeguards are in place to
three months on the total amount of exposures to SMEs ensure financial stability in all Member States.
calculated in accordance with paragraph 2.
4. The Commission shall by 2 January 2017, report on the Article 503
impact of the own funds requirements laid down in this Regu­
Own funds requirements for exposures in the form of
lation on lending to SMEs and natural persons and shall submit
covered bonds
that report to the European Parliament and to the Council,
together with a legislative proposal if appropriate. 1. The Commission shall, by 31 December 2014, after
consulting EBA, report to the European Parliament and to the
Council, together with any appropriate proposals, on whether
5. For the purpose of paragraph 4, EBA shall report the the risk weights laid down in Article 129 and the own funds
following to the Commission: requirements for specific risk in Article 336(3) are adequate for
all the instruments that qualify for these treatments and whether
( 1 ) OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36. the criteria in Article 129 are appropriate.
L 176/286 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
2. The report and the proposals referred to in paragraph 1 Article 505
shall have regard to:
Review of long-term financing
By 31 December 2014, the Commission shall report to the
European Parliament and to the Council, together with any
appropriate proposals, about the appropriateness of the
(a) the extent to which the current regulatory capital
requirements of this Regulation in light of the need to ensure
requirements applicable to covered bonds adequately differ­
adequate levels of funding for all forms of long-term financing
entiate between variances in the credit quality of covered
for the economy, including critical infrastructure projects in the
bonds and the collateral against which they are secured,
Union in the field of transport, energy and communications.
including the extent of variations across Member States;
Article 506
(b) the transparency of the covered bond market and the extent Credit risk – definition of default
to which this facilitates comprehensive internal analysis by
EBA shall, by 31 December 2017, report to the Commission on
investors in respect of the credit risk of covered bonds and
how replacing 90 days by 180 days past due, as provided in
the collateral against which they are secured and the asset
point (b) of Article 178(1), impacts risk-weighted exposure
segregation in case of the issuer's insolvency, including the
amounts and the appropriateness of the continued application
mitigating effects of the underlying strict national legal
of that provision after 31 December 2019.
framework in accordance with Article 129 of this Regu­
lation and Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC on the
overall credit quality of a covered bond and its implications
on the level of transparency needed by investors; and On the basis of that report, the Commission may submit a
legislative proposal to amend this Regulation.
(c) the extent to which covered bond issuance by a credit Article 507
institution impacts on the credit risk to which other
Large exposures
creditors of the issuing institution are exposed.
By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall review and report
on the application of Article 400(1)(j) and Article 400(2),
including whether the exemptions set out in Article 400(2) is
to be discretionary, and shall submit that report to the
3. The Commission shall, by 31 December 2014, after
European Parliament and to the Council, together with a legis­
consulting EBA, report to the European Parliament and the
lative proposal if appropriate.
Council on whether loans secured by aircrafts (aircraft liens)
and whether residential loans secured by a guarantee, but not
secured by a registered mortgage, should under certain
conditions be considered as an eligible asset in accordance With respect to the potential elimination of the national
with Article 129. discretion under Article 400(2)(c) and its potential application
at the Union level, the review shall in particular take into
account the efficiency of group risk management while
ensuring that sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure
financial stability in all Member States in which an entity
4. The Commission shall, by 31 December 2016, review the
belonging to a group is incorporated.
appropriateness of the derogation set out in Article 496 and, if
relevant, the appropriateness of extending similar treatment to
any other form of covered bond. In the light of that review, the
Commission may, if appropriate, adopt delegated acts in Article 508
accordance with Article 462 to make that derogation
Level of application
permanent or make legislative proposals to extend it to other
forms of covered bonds.
1. By 31 December 2014, the Commission shall review and
report on the application of Part One, Title II, and Article 113(6)
and (7) and shall submit that report to the European Parliament
and the Council, together with a legislative proposal if appro­
priate.
Article 504
Capital instruments subscribed by public authorities in
emergency situations
2. By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall report on
The Commission shall, by 31 December 2016, after consulting whether and how the liquidity coverage requirement laid down
EBA, report to the European Parliament and the Council, in Part Six should apply to investment firms and shall, after
together with any appropriate proposals, whether the consulting EBA, submit that report to the European Parliament
treatment set out in Article 31 needs to be amended or and to the Council, together with a legislative proposal if appro­
removed. priate.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/287
3. By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall, after (c) the provision of mechanisms restricting the coverage of
consulting EBA and ESMA and in the light of discussions liquidity requirements by certain categories of liquid
with the competent authorities, report to the European assets, in particular assessing the appropriate minimum
Parliament and to the Council on an appropriate regime for percentage for liquid assets referred to in points (a), (b)
the prudential supervision of investment firms and of firms and (c) of Article 416(1) to the total of liquid assets,
referred to in points (2)(b) and (c) of Article 4(1). Where appro­ testing a threshold of 60 % and taking into account inter­
priate the report shall be followed by a legislative proposal. national regulatory developments. Assets owed and due or
callable within 30 calendar days should not count towards
the limit unless the assets have been obtained against
collateral that also qualifies under points (a), (b) and (c)
Article 509
of Article 416(1);
Liquidity requirements
1. EBA shall monitor and evaluate the reports made in
(d) the provision of specific lower outflow and/or higher
accordance with Article 415(1), across currencies and across
inflow rates for intragroup flows, specifying under which
different business models. EBA shall, after consulting the
conditions such specific in- or outflow rates would be
ESRB, non-financial end-users, the banking industry,
justified from a prudential point of view and setting out
competent authorities and the ESCB central banks annually
the high level outline of a methodology using objective
and for the first time by 31 December 2013 report to the
criteria and parameters in order to determine specific
Commission on whether a specification of the general
levels of inflows and outflows between the institution
liquidity coverage requirement in Part Six based on the items
and the counterparty when they are not established in
to be reported in accordance with Part Six, Title II and Annex
the same Member State;
III, considered either individually or cumulatively, is likely to
have a material detrimental impact on the business and risk
profile of institutions established in the Union or on the
(e) the calibration of the draw-down rates applicable to the
stability and orderly functioning of financial markets or on
undrawn committed credit and liquidity facilities that fall
the economy and the stability of the supply of bank lending,
under Article 424(3) and (5). In particular, EBA shall test a
with a particular focus on lending to SMEs and on trade
draw-down rate of 100 %;
financing, including lending under official export credit
insurance schemes.
(f) the definition of retail deposit in point (2) of Article 411,
in particular the appropriateness of introducing a threshold
The report referred to in the first subparagraph shall take due
on deposits of natural persons;
account of markets and international regulatory developments
as well as of the interactions of the liquidity coverage
requirement with other prudential requirements under this
(g) the need to introduce a new retail deposit category with a
Regulation such as the risk based capital ratios as set out in
lower outflow in the light of the specific characteristics of
Article 92 and the leverage ratio.
such deposits that could justify a lower outflow rate and
taking into account international developments;
The European Parliament and the Council shall be given the
opportunity to state their views on the report referred to in the (h) derogations from requirements on the composition of the
first subparagraph. liquid assets institutions will be required to hold, where in a
given currency the institutions' collective justified needs for
liquid assets are exceeding the availability of those liquid
assets and conditions to which such derogations should be
2. EBA shall in the report referred to in paragraph 1 assess
subject;
the following in particular:
(i) the definition of Shari'ah-compliant financial products as an
(a) the provision of mechanisms restricting the value of alternative to assets that would qualify as liquid assets for
liquidity inflows, in particular with a view to determining the purposes of Article 416, for the use of Shari'ah-
an appropriate inflow cap and the conditions for its appli­ compliant banks;
cation, taking into account different business models
including pass through financing, factoring, leasing,
covered bonds, mortgages, issuance of covered bonds,
(j) the definition of circumstances of stress, including prin­
and the extent to which that cap should be amended or
ciples for the use of the stock of liquid assets and the
removed to cater for the specificities of specialised
necessary supervisory reactions under which institutions
financing;
would be able to use their liquid assets to meet liquidity
outflows and how to address non-compliance;
(b) the calibration of inflows and outflows referred to in Part
Six, Title II, in particular under Article 422(7) and (k) the definition of established operational relationship for
Article 425(2); non-financial customer as referred to in Article 422(3)(c);
L 176/288 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(l) the calibration of the outflow rate applicable to (e) proven record of price stability;
correspondent banking and prime brokerage services as
referred to in the first subparagraph of Article 422(4);
(f) average volume traded and average trade size;
(m) mechanisms for the grandfathering of government guar­
anteed bonds issued to credit institutions as part of (g) maximum bid/ask spread;
Government support measures with Union State aid
approval, such as bonds issued by the National Asset
Management Agency (NAMA) in Ireland and by the (h) remaining time to maturity;
Spanish Asset Management Company in Spain, designed
to remove problem assets from the balance sheets of
credit institutions, as assets of extremely high liquidity (i) minimum turnover ratio.
and credit quality until at least December 2023.
5. By 31 January 2014, EBA shall furthermore report on the
3. EBA shall, after consulting ESMA and the ECB, by
following:
31 December 2013, report to the Commission on appropriate
uniform definitions of high and of extremely high liquidity and
credit quality of transferable assets for the purposes of (a) uniform definitions of high and extremely high liquidity and
Article 416 and appropriate haircuts for assets that would credit quality;
qualify as liquid assets for the purposes of Article 416, with
the exception of assets referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) of
Article 416(1). (b) the possible unintended consequences of the definition of
liquid assets on the conduct of monetary policy operation
and the extent to which:
The European Parliament and the Council shall be given the
opportunity to state their views on that report.
(i) a list of liquid assets that is disconnected from the list
The report referred to in the first subparagraph shall also of central bank eligible assets may incentivise insti­
consider: tutions to submit eligible assets which are not
included in the definition of liquid assets in refinancing
operations;
(a) other categories of assets, in particular residential mortgage-
backed securities of high liquidity and credit quality;
(ii) regulation of liquidity may disincentivise institutions to
lend or borrow on the unsecured money market and
(b) other categories of central bank eligible securities or loans,
whether this may lead to question the targeting of
for example local government bonds and commercial paper;
EONIA in monetary policy implementation;
and
(c) other non-central bank eligible but tradable assets, for (iii) the introduction of the liquidity coverage requirement
example equities listed on a recognised exchange, gold, may make it more difficult for central banks to ensure
major index linked equity instruments, guaranteed bonds, price stability by using the existing monetary policy
covered bonds, corporate bonds and funds based on those framework and instruments;
assets.
(c) the operational requirements for the holdings of liquid
4. The report referred to in paragraph 3 shall consider
assets, as referred in points (b) to (f) of Article. 417, in
whether, and if, to what extent standby credit facilities
line with international regulatory developments.
referred to in point (e) of Article 416(1) should be included
as liquid assets in light of international development and taking
into account European specificities, including the way monetary
Article 510
policy is performed in the Union.
Net Stable Funding Requirements
EBA shall in particular test the adequacy of the following 1. By 31 December 2015, EBA shall report to the
criteria and the appropriate levels for such definitions: Commission, on the basis of the items to be reported in
accordance with Part Six, Title III, on whether and how it
would be appropriate to ensure that institutions use stable
(a) minimum trade volume of the assets;
sources of funding, including an assessment of the impact on
the business and risk profile of institutions established in the
(b) minimum outstanding volume of the assets; Union or on financial markets or the economy and bank
lending, with a particular focus on lending to SMEs and on
trade financing, including lending under official export credit
(c) transparent pricing and post-trade information;
insurance schemes and pass through financing models,
including match funded mortgage lending. In particular EBA
(d) credit quality steps referred to in Part Three, Title II, shall analyse the impact of stable sources of funding on the
Chapter 2; refinancing structures of different banking models in the Union.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/289
2. By 31 December 2015, EBA shall also report to the (a) whether the leverage ratio framework provided by this
Commission, on the basis of the items to be reported in Regulation and Articles 87 and 98 of Directive 2013/36/EU
accordance with Part Six, Title III and in accordance with the is the appropriate tool to suppress the risk of excessive
uniform reporting formats referred to in point (a) of leverage on the part of the institutions in a satisfactory
Article 415(3) and after consulting the ESRB, on methodologies manner and degree;
for determining the amount of stable funding available to and
required by institutions and on appropriate uniform definitions
for calculating such a net stable funding requirement, examining
(b) on identifying business models that reflect the overall risk
in particular the following:
profiles of the institutions and on introducing differentiated
levels of the leverage ratio for those business models;
(a) the categories and weightings applied to sources of stable
funding in Article 427(1);
(c) whether the requirements laid out in Articles 76 and 87 of
Directive 2013/36/EU in accordance with Articles 73 and
97 of Directive 2013/36/EU for addressing the risk of
(b) the categories and weightings applied to determine the excessive leverage are sufficient to ensure sound
requirement for stable funding in Article 428(1); management of this risk by institutions and, if not, which
further enhancements are needed in order to ensure these
objectives;
(c) methodologies shall provide incentives and disincentives as
appropriate to encourage a more stable longer term funding
of assets, business activities, investment and funding of insti­ (d) whether – and if so, which - changes to the calculation
tutions; methodology referred to in Article 429 would be
necessary to ensure that the leverage ratio can be used as
an appropriate indicator of an institution's risk of excessive
leverage;
(d) the need to develop different methodologies for different
types of institutions.
(e) whether, in the context of the calculation of the total
exposure measure of the leverage ratio, the exposure value
3. By 31 December 2016, the Commission shall, if appro­ of contracts listed in Annex II determined by using the
priate, and taking into account the reports referred to in para­ Original Exposure Method differs in a material way from
graphs 1 and 2, and taking full account of the diversity of the the exposure value determined by using the Mark-to-Market
banking sector in the Union, submit a legislative proposal to the Method;
European Parliament and the Council on how to ensure that
institutions use stable sources of funding.
(f) whether using either own funds or Common Equity Tier 1
capital as the capital measure of the leverage ratio could be
Article 511 more appropriate for the intended purpose of tracking the
risk of excessive leverage and, if so, what would be the
Leverage
appropriate calibration of the leverage ratio;
1. Based on the results of the report referred to in paragraph
3, the Commission shall submit by 31 December 2016 a report
on the impact and effectiveness of the leverage ratio to the
(g) whether the conversion factor referred to in point (a) of
European Parliament and the Council.
Article 429(10) for undrawn credit facilities, which may
be cancelled unconditionally at any time without notice, is
appropriately conservative based on the evidence collected
2. Where appropriate, the report shall be accompanied by a during the observation period;
legislative proposal on the introduction of an appropriate
number of levels of the leverage ratio that institutions
following different business models would be required to
(h) whether the frequency and format of the disclosure of items
meet, suggesting an adequate calibration for those levels and
referred to in Article 451 are adequate;
any appropriate adjustments to the capital measure and the
total exposure measure as referred to in Article 429, together
with any connected flexibility measures if necessary, including
appropriate amendments to Article 458 to introduce the (i) what would be the appropriate level for the leverage ratio
leverage ratio within the scope of measures included in that for each of the business models indentified in accordance
Article. with point (b);
3. For the purposes of paragraph 1, EBA shall report to the (j) whether a range for each level of the leverage ratio should
Commission by 31 October 2016 on at least the following: be defined;
L 176/290 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(k) whether introducing the leverage ratio as a requirement for (c) the impact of accounting differences between accounting
institutions would necessitate any changes to the leverage standards applicable under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002,
ratio framework provided by this Regulation and, if so, accounting standards applicable under Directive 86/635/EEC
which ones; and other applicable accounting framework and other
relevant accounting frameworks on the comparability of
the leverage ratio.
(l) whether introducing the leverage ratio as a requirement for
institutions would effectively constrain the risk of excessive
leverage on the part of those institutions, and, if so, whether
the level for the leverage ratio should be the same for all Article 512
institutions or should be determined according to the risk
Exposures to transferred credit risk
profile and business model as well as the size of institutions
and, with regard to this, which additional calibrations or By 31 December 2014 the Commission shall report to the
transition period would be required. European Parliament and the Council on the application and
effectiveness of the provisions of Part Five in the light of inter­
national market developments.
4. The report referred to in paragraph 3 shall cover at least
the period from 1 January 2014 until 30 June 2016 and shall
take account of at least the following:
Article 513
(a) the impact of introducing the leverage ratio, determined in Macroprudential rules
accordance with Article 429, as a requirement that insti­
tutions would have to meet on: 1. By 30 June 2014, the Commission shall, after consulting
the ESRB and EBA, review whether the macroprudential rules
contained in this Regulation and Directive 2013/36/EU are
(i) financial markets in general and markets for sufficient to mitigate systemic risks in sectors, regions and
repurchase transactions, derivatives and covered Member States including assessing:
bonds in particular;
(ii) the robustness of institutions; (a) whether the current macroprudential tools in this Regu­
lation and Directive 2013/36/EU are effective, efficient
and transparent;
(iii) business models and balance-sheet structures of insti­
tutions; in particular as regards low-risk areas of
business, such as promotional credit by public devel­
opment banks, municipal loans, financing of resi­ (b) whether the coverage and the possible degrees of overlap
dential property and other low-risk areas regulated between different macroprudential tools for targeting similar
under national law; risks in this Regulation and Directive 2013/36/EU are
adequate and, if appropriate, propose new macroprudential
rules;
(iv) the migration of exposures to entities which are not
subject to prudential supervision;
(c) how internationally agreed standards for systemic insti­
(v) financial innovation, in particular the development of
tutions interacts with the provisions in this Regulation
instruments with embedded leverage;
and Directive 2013/36/EU and, if appropriate, propose
new rules taking into account those internationally agreed
(vi) institutions' risk-taking behaviour; standards.
(vii) clearing, settlement and custody activities and the
operation of a central counterparty; 2. By 31 December 2014, the Commission shall, on the
basis of the consultation with the ESRB and EBA, report to
the European Parliament and the Council on the assessment
(viii) cyclicality of the capital measure and the total
referred to in paragraph 1 and, where appropriate, submit a
exposure measure of the leverage ratio;
legislative proposal to the European Parliament and the Council.
(ix) bank lending, with a particular focus on lending to
SMEs, local authorities, regional governments and
Article 514
public sector entities and on trade financing,
including lending under official export credit Counterparty Credit Risk and the Original Exposure
insurance schemes; Method
By 31 December 2016 the Commission shall review and report
(b) the interaction of the leverage ratio with the risk-based own on the application of Article 275 and shall submit that report
funds requirements and the liquidity requirements as to the European Parliament and the Council, and, if appropriate,
specified in this Regulation; a legislative proposal.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/291
Article 515 pension assets as set out in Article 36(1)(e) and changes in
the net pension liabilities lead to undue volatility of institutions'
Monitoring and evaluation
own funds.
1. EBA, together with ESMA, shall by 2 January 2015 report
on the functioning of this Regulation with the related
obligations under Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and in
particular with regard to institutions operating a central Taking into account the EBA report, the Commission shall by
counterparty, in order to avoid duplication of requirements 31 December 2014 prepare a report to the European
for derivative transactions and thereby avoid increased regu­ Parliament and the Council on the issue referred to in the
latory risk and increased costs for monitoring by competent first paragraph, together with a legislative proposal, if appro­
authorities. priate, to introduce a treatment which adjusts defined net
benefit pension fund assets or liabilities for the calculation of
own funds.
2. EBA shall monitor and evaluate the operation of the
provisions for own funds requirements for exposures to a
central counterparty as set out in Section 9 of Chapter 6 of
Title II of Part Three. By 1 January 2015 EBA shall report to the TITLE III
Commission on the impact and effectiveness of such provisions.
AMENDMENTS
Article 520
3. By 31 December 2016 the Commission shall review and
report on the reconciliation of this Regulation with the related Amendment of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012
obligations under Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, the own funds
Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 is amended as follows:
requirements as set out in Section 9 of Chapter 6 of Title II of
Part Three and shall submit that report to the European
Parliament and the Council, and, if appropriate, a legislative
proposal.
(1) the following Chapter is added in Title IV:
Article 516
Long-term financing "CHAPTER 4
By 31 December 2015 the Commission shall report on the Calculations and reporting for the purposes of Regulation
impact of this Regulation on the encouragement of long-term (EU) No 575/2013
investments in growth promoting infrastructure.
Article 50a
Article 517
Calculation of K
CCP
1. For the purposes of Article 308 of Regulation (EU) No
Definition of eligible capital
575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
By 31 December 2014 the Commission shall review and report 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit insti­
on the appropriateness of the definition of eligible capital being tutions and investment firms (*), where a CCP has received
applied for the purposes of Title III of Part Two and Part Four the notification referred to in Article 301(2)(b) of that Regu­
and shall submit that report to the European Parliament and the lation, it shall calculate K C CP as specified in paragraph 2 of
Council, and, if appropriate, a legislative proposal. this Article for all contracts and transactions it clears for all
its clearing members falling within the coverage of the given
default fund.
Article 518
Review of capital instruments which may be written down
or converted at the point of non-viability
2. A CCP shall calculate the hypothetical capital (K
C CP
) as
By 31 December 2015, the Commission shall review and report follows:
on whether this Regulation should contain a requirement that
A dod wdi nti o inn a tl
h
T ei e er
v
e1
n
o
t
r
o
T
f
i ae r d2
e
tc ea rmpi it nal
a
ti in os ntr u thm ae
t
n at ns a ir ne
s
tt io
tu
b tie
o
nw r isit t ne on
K
CCP ¼
Xi
max fEBRM
i
– IM
i
– DF
i
; 0
g
· RW · captial ratio
longer viable. The Commission shall submit that report to the where:
European Parliament and the Council, together with a legislative
proposal if appropriate.
EBRM
i
= exposure value before risk mitigation that is
Article 519 equal to the exposure value of the CCP to
clearing member i arising from all the
Deduction of defined benefit pension fund assets from
contracts and transactions with that
Common Equity Tier 1 items
clearing member, calculated without
EBA shall by 30 June 2014 prepare a report on whether the taking into account the collateral posted
revised IAS 19 in conjunction with the deduction of net by that clearing member;
L 176/292 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
IM
i
= the initial margin posted to the CCP by and which entails settlement risk only it shall
clearing member i; calculate them in accordance with Part Three,
Title V of that Regulation;
DF
i
= the pre-funded contribution of clearing
member i;
(b) for institutions that fall under the scope of Regulation
(EU) No 575/2013 the netting sets are the same as
RW = a risk weight of 20 %; those defined in Part Three, Title II of that Regulation;
capital ratio = 8 %.
(c) when calculating the values referred to in point (a), the
CCP shall subtract from its exposures the collateral
3. A CCP shall undertake the calculation required by posted by its clearing members, appropriately reduced
paragraph 2 at least quarterly or more frequently where by the supervisory volatility adjustments in accordance
required by the competent authorities of those of its with the Financial Collateral Comprehensive Method
clearing members which are institutions. specified in Article 224 of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013;
4. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical
standards to specify the following for the purpose of
paragraph 3: (d) a CCP shall calculate its securities financing transaction
exposures to its clearing members in accordance with
the Financial Collateral Comprehensive method, with
(a) the frequency and dates of the calculation laid down in
supervisory volatility adjustments, specified in Articles
paragraph 2;
223 and 224 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013;
(b) the situations in which the competent authority of an
institution acting as a clearing member may require (e) where a CCP has exposures to one or more CCPs it shall
higher frequencies of calculation and reporting than treat any such exposures as if they were exposures to
those referred to in point (a). clearing members and include any margin or pre-funded
contributions received from those CCPs in the calcu­
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical
lation of K
C CP
;
standards to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
(f) where a CCP has in place a binding contractual
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­ arrangement with its clearing members that allows it
menting technical standards referred to in the first to use all or part of the initial margin received from
subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation its clearing members as if they were pre-funded
(EU) No 1093/2010. contributions, the CCP shall consider that initial
margin as prefunded contributions for the purposes of
the calculation in paragraph 1 and not as initial margin;
Article 50b
General rules for the calculation of K
CCP
(g) when applying the Mark-to-Market Method, a CCP shall
For the purposes of the calculation laid down in
replace the formula in point (c)(ii) of Article 298(1) of
Article 50a(2), the following shall apply:
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 with the following:
(a) a CCP shall calculate the value of the exposures it has to
its clearing members as follows: PCE
r ed ¼
0:15 · PCE
g ross þ
0:85 · NGR · PCE
g ross
;
(i) for exposures arising from contracts and trans­
where the numerator of NGR is calculated in accordance
actions listed in Article 301(1)(a) and (d) of Regu­
with Article 274(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013
lation (EU) No 575/2013;
and just before the variation margin is actually
exchanged at the end of the settlement period, and
(ii) for exposures arising from contracts and trans­ the denominator is the gross replacement cost;
actions listed in Article 301(1)(b), (c) and (e) of
Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 it shall calculate
them in accordance with the Financial Collateral (h) when applying the Mark-to-Market Method as set out in
Comprehensive Method specified in Article 223 of Article 274 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, a CCP
that Regulation with supervisory volatility adjust­ shall replace the formula in point (c)(ii) of Article 298(1)
ments, specified in Articles 223 and 224 of that of that Regulation with the following:
Regulation. The exception set out in point (a) of
Article 285(3) of that Regulation, shall not apply;
(iii) Afo rr
t
ie cx lep o 3s 0ur 1e (s
1
)a ri os fi ng
R
ef gro um
lat
it ora nn s (a Ec Uti )o n Ns
o
n o 5t
7
l 5is /t 2e 0d 1i 3n PCE
r ed ¼
0:15 · PCE
g ross þ
0:85 · NGR · PCE
g ross
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/293
where the numerator of NGR is calculated in accordance clearing members before using the default fund
with Article 274(1) of that Regulation and just before contributions of the remaining clearing members
variation margins are actually exchanged at the end of (DF
C CP
);
the settlement period, and the denominator is gross
replacement cost;
(d) the total number of its clearing members (N);
(i) where a CCP cannot calculate the value of NGR as set
(e) the concentration factor (β), as set out in Article 50d;
out in point (c)(ii) of Article 298(1) of Regulation (EU)
No 575/2013, it shall:
(f) the sum of all of the contractually committed
(i) notify those of its clearing members which are insti­
contributions ðDF c
C M
Þ.
tutions and their competent authorities about its
inability to calculate NGR and the reasons why it Where the CCP has more than one default fund, it shall
is unable to carry out the calculation; report the information in the first subparagraph for each
default fund separately.
(ii) for a period of three months, it may use a value of
NGR of 0,3 to perform the calculation of PCE red 2. The CCP shall notify those of its clearing members
specified in point (g); which are institutions at least quarterly or more frequently
where required by the competent authorities of those
clearing members.
(j) where, at the end of the period specified in point (ii) of
point (i), the CCP would still be unable to calculate the
value of NGR, it shall do the following: 3. EBA shall develop draft implementing technical
standards to specify the following:
(i) stop calculating K
C CP
;
(a) the uniform template for the purpose of the reporting
specified in paragraph 1;
(ii) notify those of its clearing members which are insti­
tutions and their competent authorities that it has
stopped calculating K
C CP
; (b) the frequency and dates of the reporting specified in
paragraph 2;
(k) for the purpose of calculating the potential future
exposure for options and swaptions in accordance (c) the situations in which the competent authority of an
with the Mark-to-Market Method specified in Article 274 institution acting as a clearing member may require
of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, a CCP shall multiply higher frequencies of reporting than those referred to
the notional amount of the contract by the absolute in point (b).
value of the option's delta δV=δp as set out in
ð Þ
point (a) of Article 280(1) of that Regulation;
EBA shall submit those draft implementing technical
standards to the Commission by 1 January 2014.
(l) where a CCP has more than one default fund, it shall
carry out the calculation laid down in Article 50a(2) for
Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the imple­
each default fund separately.
menting technical standards referred to in the first
subparagraph in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation
(EU) No 1093/2010.
Article 50c
Reporting of information
Article 50d
1. For the purposes of Article 308 of Regulation (EU) No
575/2013, a CCP shall report the following information to Calculation of specific items to be reported by the CCP
those of its clearing members which are institutions and to
their competent authorities:
For the purposes of Article 50c, the following shall apply:
(a) the hypothetical capital (K
C CP
);
(a) where the rules of a CCP provide that it use part or all
of its financial resources in parallel to the pre-funded
(b) the sum of pre-funded contributions (DF
C M
); contributions of its clearing members in a manner that
makes those resources equivalent to pre-funded
contributions of a clearing member in terms of how
(c) the amount of its pre-funded financial resources that it they absorb the losses incurred by the CCP in the
is required to use - by law or due to a contractual case of the default or insolvency of one or more of
agreement with its clearing members - to cover its its clearing members, the CCP shall add the
losses following the default of one or more of its corresponding amount of those resources to DF
C M
;
L 176/294 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
(b) where the rules of a CCP provide that it use part or all on the authorisation of the CCP, whichever date is earlier,
of its financial resources to cover its losses due to the that CCP shall apply the treatment specified in the third
default of one or more of its clearing members after it subparagraph of this paragraph.
has depleted its default fund, but before it calls on the
contractually committed contributions of its clearing Up until 15 months after the date of entry into force of the
members, the CCP shall add the corresponding latest of the eleven regulatory technical standards referred to
amount of those additional financial resources at the end of the second subparagraph of paragraph 3, or
cðD onF
t
a
C
r
C ibP uÞ
tionto
s
(Dt Fh
)
e
a s
ft oo lt la ol
w
s:a mount of pre-funded u on
f
t ti hl ea d Ce Cc Pis
,
io wn
h
ii cs hm eva ed re du an ted e ir
s
A er at ri lc iele
r
,2 t5
h
ao tn
C
t Ch Pe r se hc ao lg
l
n ai pti po ln
y
the treatment specified in the third subparagraph of this
DF
¼
DF
CCP þ
DF
CM þ
DF a
C CP
. paragraph.
Where a CCP does not have a default fund and it does not
(c) a CCP shall calculate the concentration factor (β) in
have in place a binding arrangement with its clearing
accordance with the following formula:
members that allows it to use all or part of the initial
margin received from its clearing members as if they were
pre-funded contributions, the information it shall report in
β
PCE
r ed;1 þ
PCE
r ed;2
a ac mc oo urd na tn oce
f
inw ii tt ih
al
mAr at ri gc il ne i5
t
0 hc a(1
s
) res ch ea ivll
e d
in frc olu md e itst h ce
l
eat ro inta gl
¼
i
PCE
r ed;i members (IM).
P
The deadlines in the first and second subparagraphs of this
where:
paragraph may be extended by an additional six months
where the Commission has adopted the implementing act
PCE
red,i
= the reduced figure for potential future
referred to in Article 497(3) of Regulation (EU) No
credit exposure for all contracts and trans­
575/2013."
action of a CCP with clearing member i;
PART ELEVEN
PCE
red,1
= the reduced figure for potential future
FINAL PROVISIONS
credit exposure for all contracts and trans­
action of a CCP with the clearing member Article 521
that has the largest PCE
red
value;
Entry into force and date of application
PCE red,2 = the reduced figure for potential future 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following
credit exposure for all contracts and trans­ that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European
action of a CCP with the clearing member Union.
that has the second largest PCE
red
value.
___________ 2. This Regulation shall apply from 1 January 2014, with the
(*) OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1."; exception of:
(a) Article 8(3), Article 21 and Article 451(1), which shall
apply from 1 January 2015;
(2) in Article 11(15), point (b) is deleted;
(b) Article 413(1), which shall apply from 1 January 2016;
(3) in Article 89, the following paragraph is inserted:
(c) the provisions of this Regulation that require the ESAs to
"5a. Up until 15 months after the date of entry into submit to the Commission draft technical standards and the
force of the latest of the eleven regulatory technical provisions of this Regulation that empower the Commission
standards referred to at the end of the first subparagraph to adopt delegated acts or implementing acts, which shall
of paragraph 3, or until a decision is made under Article 14 apply from 31 December 2014.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 26 June 2013.
For the European Parliament For the Council
The President The President
M. SCHULZ A. SHATTER
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/295
ANNEX I
Classification of off-balance sheet items
1. Full risk:
(a) guarantees having the character of credit substitutes, (e.g. guarantees for the good payment of credit facilities);
(b) credit derivatives;
(c) acceptances;
(d) endorsements on bills not bearing the name of another institution;
(e) transactions with recourse (e.g. factoring, invoice discount facilities);
(f) irrevocable standby letters of credit having the character of credit substitutes;
(g) assets purchased under outright forward purchase agreements;
(h) forward deposits;
(i) the unpaid portion of partly-paid shares and securities;
(j) asset sale and repurchase agreements as referred to in Article 12(3) and (5) of Directive 86/635/EEC;
(k) other items also carrying full risk.
2. Medium risk:
(a) trade finance off-balance sheet items, namely documentary credits issued or confirmed (see also 'Medium/low risk');
(b) other off-balance sheet items:
(i) shipping guarantees, customs and tax bonds;
(ii) undrawn credit facilities (agreements to lend, purchase securities, provide guarantees or acceptance facilities)
with an original maturity of more than one year;
(iii) note issuance facilities (NIFs) and revolving underwriting facilities (RUFs);
(iv) other items also carrying medium risk and as communicated to EBA.
3. Medium/low risk:
(a) trade finance off-balance sheet items:
(i) documentary credits in which underlying shipment acts as collateral and other self-liquidating transactions;
(ii) warranties (including tender and performance bonds and associated advance payment and retention guar­
antees) and guarantees not having the character of credit substitutes;
(iii) irrevocable standby letters of credit not having the character of credit substitutes;
(b) other off-balance sheet items:
(i) undrawn credit facilities which comprise agreements to lend, purchase securities, provide guarantees or
acceptance facilities with an original maturity of up to and including one year which may not be cancelled
unconditionally at any time without notice or that do not effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to
deterioration in a borrower's creditworthiness;
(ii) other items also carrying medium/low risk and as communicated to EBA.
L 176/296 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
4. Low risk:
(a) undrawn credit facilities comprising agreements to lend, purchase securities, provide guarantees or acceptance
facilities which may be cancelled unconditionally at any time without notice, or that do effectively provide for
automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower's creditworthiness. Retail credit lines may be considered
as unconditionally cancellable if the terms permit the institution to cancel them to the full extent allowable under
consumer protection and related legislation;
(b) undrawn credit facilities for tender and performance guarantees which may be cancelled unconditionally at any
time without notice, or that do effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower's
creditworthiness; and
(c) other items also carrying low risk and as communicated to EBA.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/297
ANNEX II
Types of derivatives
1. Interest-rate contracts:
(a) single-currency interest rate swaps;
(b) basis-swaps;
(c) forward rate agreements;
(d) interest-rate futures;
(e) interest-rate options purchased;
(f) other contracts of similar nature.
2. Foreign-exchange contracts and contracts concerning gold:
(a) cross-currency interest-rate swaps;
(b) forward foreign-exchange contracts;
(c) currency futures;
(d) currency options purchased;
(e) other contracts of a similar nature;
(f) contracts of a nature similar to (a) to (e) concerning gold.
3. Contracts of a nature similar to those in points 1(a) to (e) and 2(a) to (d) of this Annex concerning other reference
items or indices. This includes as a minimum all instruments specified in points 4 to 7, 9 and 10 of Section C of
Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC not otherwise included in point 1 or 2 of this Annex.
L 176/298 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
ANNEX III
Items subject to supplementary reporting of liquid assets
1. Cash.
2. Central bank exposures, to the extent that these exposures can be drawn down in times of stress.
3. Transferable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, non-central
government public sector entities, regions with fiscal autonomy to raise and collect taxes and local authorities,
the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, the European
Financial Stability Facility, the European Stability Mechanism or multilateral development banks and satisfying all
of the following conditions:
(a) they are assigned a 0 % risk-weight under Chapter 2, Title II of Part Three;
(b) they are not an obligation of an institution or any of its affiliated entities.
4. Transferable securities other than those referred to in point 3 representing claims on or claims guaranteed by
sovereigns or central banks issued in domestic currencies by the sovereign or central bank in the currency and
country in which the liquidity risk is being taken or issued in foreign currencies, to the extent that holding of such
debt matches the liquidity needs of the bank's operations in that third country.
5. Transferable securities representing claims on or claims guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, non-central
government public sector entities, regions with fiscal autonomy to raise and collect taxes and local authorities, or
multilateral development banks and satisfying all of the following conditions:
(a) they are assigned a 20 % risk-weight under Chapter 2, Title II of Part Three;
(b) they are not an obligation of an institution or any of its affiliated entities.
6. Transferable securities other than those referred to in points 3, 4 and 5 that qualify for a 20 % or better risk weight
under Chapter 2, Title II of Part Three or are internally rated as having an equivalent credit quality, and fulfil any of
the following conditions:
(a) they do not represent a claim on an SSPE, an institution or any of its affiliated entities;
(b) they are bonds eligible for the treatment set out in Article 129(4) or (5);
(c) they are bonds as referred to in Article 52(4) of Directive 2009/65/EC other than those referred to in point (b) of
this point.
7. Transferable securities other than those referred to in points 3 to 6 that qualify for a 50 % or better risk weight under
Chapter 2, Title II of Part Three or are internally rated as having an equivalent credit quality, and do not represent a
claim on an SSPE, an institution or any of its affiliated entities.
8. Transferable securities other than those referred to in points 3 to 7 that are collateralised by assets that qualify for a
35 % or better risk weight under Chapter 2, Title II of Part Three or are internally rated as having an equivalent credit
quality, and are fully and completely secured by mortgages on residential property in accordance with Article 125.
9. Standby credit facilities granted by central banks within the scope of monetary policy to the extent that these
facilities are not collateralised by liquid assets and excluding emergency liquidity assistance.
10. Legal or statutory minimum deposits with the central credit institution and other statutory or contractually available
liquid funding from the central credit institution or institutions that are members of the network referred to in
Article 113(7), or eligible for the waiver provided in Article 10, to the extent that this funding is not collateralised by
liquid assets, if the credit institution belongs to a network in accordance with legal or statutory provisions.
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/299
11. Exchange traded, centrally cleared common equity shares, that are a constituent of a major stock index, denominated
in the domestic currency of the Member State and not issued by an institution or any of its affiliates.
12. Gold listed on a recognised exchange, held on an allocated basis.
All items with the exception of those referred to in points 1, 2 and 9 must satisfy all of the following conditions:
(a) they are traded in simple repurchase agreements or cash markets characterised by a low level of concentration;
(b) they have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity by either repurchase agreement or sale even during
stressed market conditions;
(c) they are unencumbered.
L 176/300 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
ANNEX IV
Correlation table
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 1
Article 2
Article 3
Point (1) of Article 4(1) Article 4 (1)
Point (2) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)b
Point (3) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)c
Point (4) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)p
Points (5)-(7) of Article 4(1)
Point (8) of Article 4(1) Article 4(18)
Points (9)-(12) of Article 4(1)
Point (13) of Article 4(1) Article 4(41)
Point (14) of Article 4(1) Article 4(42)
Point (15) of Article 4(1) Article 4(12)
Point (16) of Article 4(1) Article 4(13)
Point (17) of Article 4(1) Article 4(3)
Point (18) of Article 4(1) Article 4(21)
Point (19) of Article 4(1)
Point (20) of Article 4(1) Article 4(19)
Point (21) of Article 4(1)
Point (22) of Article 4(1) Article 4(20)
Point (23) of Article 4(1)
Point (24) of Article 4(1)
Point (25) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)c
Point (26) of Article 4(1) Article 4(5)
Point (27) of Article 4(1)
Point (28) of Article 4(1) Article 4(14)
Point (29) of Article 4(1) Article 4(16)
Point (30) of Article 4(1) Article 4(15)
Point (31) of Article 4(1) Article 4(17)
Points (32)-(34) of Article 4(1)
Point (35) of Article 4(1) Article 4(10)
Point (36) of Article 4(1)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/301
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Point (37) of Article 4(1) Article 4(9)
Point (38) of Article 4(1) Article 4(46)
Point (39) of Article 4(1) Article 4(45)
Point (40) of Article 4(1) Article 4(4)
Point (41) of Article 4(1) Article 4(48)
Point (42) of Article 4(1) Article 4(2)
Point (43) of Article 4(1) Article 4(7)
Point (44) of Article 4(1) Article 4(8)
Point (45) of Article 4(1)
Point (46) of Article 4(1) Article 4(23)
Points (47)-(49) of Article 4(1)
Point (50) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)e
Point (51) of Article 4(1)
Point (52) of Article 4(1) Article 4(22)
Point (53) of Article 4(1) Article 4(24)
Point (54) of Article 4(1) Article 4(25)
Point (55) of Article 4(1) Article 4(27)
Point (56) of Article 4(1) Article 4(28)
Point (57) of Article 4(1) Article 4(30)
Point (58) of Article 4(1) Article 4(31)
Point (59) of Article 4(1) Article 4(32)
Point (60) of Article 4(1) Article 4(35)
Point (61) of Article 4(1) Article 4(36)
Point (62) of Article 4(1) Article 4(40)
Point (63) of Article 4(1) Article 4(40a)
Point (64) of Article 4(1) Article 4(40b)
Point (65) of Article 4(1) Article 4(43)
Point (66) of Article 4(1) Article 4(44)
Point (67) of Article 4(1) Article 4(39)
Points (68)-(71) of Article 4(1)
Point (72) of Article 4(1) Article 4(47)
Point (73) of Article 4(1) Article 4(49)
Points (74)-(81) of Article 4(1)
Point (82) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)m
Point (83) of Article 4(1) Article 4(33)
L 176/302 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Points (84)-(91) of Article 4(1)
Point (92) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)i
Points (93)-(117) of Article 4(1)
Point (118) of Article 4(1) Article 3(1)r
Points (119)-(128) of Article 4(1)
Article 4(2)
Article 4(3)
Article 6(1) Article 68(1)
Article 6(2) Article 68(2)
Article 6(3) Article 68(3)
Article 6(4)
Article 6(5)
Article 7(1) Article 69(1)
Article 7(2) Article 69(2)
Article 7(3) Article 69(3)
Article 8(1)
Article 8(2)
Article 8(3)
Article 9(1) Article 70(1)
Article 9(2) Article 70(2)
Article 9(3) Article 70(3)
Article 10(1) Article 3(1)
Article 10(2)
Article 11(1) Article 71(1)
Article 11(2) Article 71(2)
Article 11(3)
Article 11(4) Article 3(2)
Article 11(5)
Article 12
Article 13(1) Article 72(1)
Article 13(2) Article 72(2)
Article 13(3) Article 72(3)
Article 13(4)
Article 14(1) Article 73(3)
Article 14(2)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/303
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 14(3)
Article 15 Article 22
Article 16
Article 17(1) Article 23
Article 17(2)
Article 17(3)
Article 18(1) Article 133(1) subparagraph 1
Article 18(2) Article 133(1) subparagraph 2
Article 18(3) Article 133(1) subparagraph 3
Article 18(4) Article 133(2)
Article 18(5) Article 133(3)
Article 18(6) Article 134(1)
Article 18(7)
Article 18(8) Article 134(2)
Article 19(1) Article 73(1) (b)
Article 19(2) Article 73(1)
Article 19(3) Article 73(1) subparagraph 2
Article 20(1) Article 105(3) Article 129(2) and
Annex X, Part 3, points 30 and 31
Article 20(2) Article 129(2) subparagraph 3
Article 20(3) Article 129(2) subparagraph 4
Article 20(4) Article 129(2) subparagraph 5
Article 20(5)
Article 20(6) Article 84(2)
Article 20(7) Article 129(2) subparagraph 6
Article 20(8) Article 129(2) subparagraphs 7 and 8
Article 21(1)
Article 21(2)
Article 21(3)
Article 21(4)
Article 22 Article 73(2)
Article 23 Article 3(1) 2. Subparagraph
Article 24 Article 74 (1)
Article 25
Article 26 (1) Article 57(a)
L 176/304 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 26 (1)(a) Article 57(a)
Article 26 (1)(b) Article 57(a)
Article 26 (1)(c) Article 57(b)
Article 26 (1)(d)
Article 26 (1)(e) Article 57(b)
Article 26 (1)(f) Article 57(c)
Article 26 (1) first subparagraph 1 Article 61 subparagraph 2
Article 26 (2)(a) Article 57 subparagraphs 2, 3 and 4
Article 26 (2)(b) Article 57 subparagraphs 2, 3 and 4
Article 26 (3)
Article 26 (4)
Article 27
Article 28(1)(a)
Article 28(1)(b) Article 57(a)
Article 28(1)(c) Article 57(a)
Article 28(1)(d)
Article 28(1)(e)
Article 28(1)(f)
Article 28(1)(g)
Article 28(1)(h)
Article 28(1)(i) Article 57(a)
Article 28(1)(j) Article 57(a)
Article 28(1)(k)
Article 28(1)(l)
Article 28(1)(m)
Article 28(2)
Article 28(3)
Article 28(4)
Article 28(5)
Article 29
Article 30
Article 31
Article 32(1)(a)
Article 32(1)(b) Article 57 subparagraph 4
Article 32(2)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/305
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 33(1)(a) Article 64(4)
Article 33(1)(b) Article 64(4)
Article 33(1)(c)
Article 33(2)
Article 33(3)(a)
Article 33(3)(b)
Article 33(3)(c)
Article 33(3)(d)
Article 33(4)
Article 34 Article 64(5)
Article 35
Article 36(1)(a) Article 57(k)
Article 36(1)(b) Article 57(j)
Article 36(1)(c)
Article 36(1)(d) Article 57(q)
Article 36(1)(e)
Article 36(1)(f) Article 57(i)
Article 36(1)(g)
Article 36(1)(h) Article 57(n)
Article 36(1)(i) Article 57(m)
Article 36(1)(j) Article 66(2)
Article 36(1)(k)(i)
Article 36(1)(k)(ii) Article 57(r)
Article 36(1)(k)(iii)
Article 36(1)(k)(iv)
Article 36(1)(k)(v)
Article 36(1)(l) Article 61 subparagraph 2
Article 36(2)
Article 36(3)
Article 37
Article 38
Article 39
Article 40
Article 41
Article 42
L 176/306 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 43
Article 44
Article 45
Article 46
Article 47
Article 48
Article 49(1) Article 59
Article 49(2) Article 60
Article 49(3)
Article 49(4)
Article 49(5)
Article 49(6)
Article 50 Article 66, Article 57(ca), Article 63a
Article 51 Article 66, Article 57(ca), Article 63a
Article 52 Article 63a
Article 53
Article 54
Article 55
Article 56
Article 57
Article 58
Article 59
Article 60
Article 61 Article 66, Article 57(ca), Article 63a
Article 62(a) Article 64(3)
Article 62(b)
Article 62(c)
Article 62(d) Article 63(3)
Article 63 Article 63(1), Article 63(2),
Article 64(3)
Article 64 Article 64 (3) (c)
Article 65
Article 66 Article 57, Article 66(2)
Article 67 Article 57, Article 66(2)
Article 68
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/307
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 69 Article 57, Article 66(2)
Article 70 Article 57, Article 66(2)
Article 71 Article 66, Article 57(ca), Article 63a
Article 72 Article 57, Article 66
Article 73
Article 74
Article 75
Article 76
Article 77 Article 63a(2)
Article 78(1) Article 63a(2)
Article 78(2)
Article 78(3)
Article 78(4) Article 63a(2) subparagraph 4
Article 78(5)
Article 79 Article 58
Article 80
Article 81 Article 65
Article 82 Article 65
Article 83
Article 84 Article 65
Article 85 Article 65
Article 86 Article 65
Article 87 Article 65
Article 88 Article 65
Article 89 Article 120
Article 90 Article 122
Article 91 Article 121
Article 92 Article 66, Article 75
Article 93(1)-(4) Article 10(1)-(4)
Article 93(5)
Article 94 Article 18(2)-(4)
Article 95
Article 96
Article 97
Article 98 Article 24
L 176/308 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 99(1) Article 74(2)
Article 99(2)
Article 100
Article 101(1)
Article 101(2)
Article 101(3)
Article 102(1) Article 11(1)
Article 102(2) Article 11(3)
Article 102(3) Article 11(4)
Article 102(4) Annex VII, Part C, point 1
Article 103 Annex VII, Part A, point 1
Article 104(1) Annex VII, Part D, point 1
Article 104(2) Annex VII, Part D, point 2
Article 105(1) Article 33(1)
Article 105(2)-(10) Annex VII, Part B, points 1-9
Article 105(11)-(13) Annex VII, Part B, points 11-13
Article 106 Annex VII, Part C, points 1-3
Article 107 Article 76, Article 78(4) and Annex III,
Part 2, point 6
Article 108(1) Article 91
Article 108(2)
Article 109 Article 94
Article 110
Article 111 Article 78(1)-(3)
Article 112 Article 79(1)
Article 113(1) Article 80(1)
Article 113(2) Article 80(2)
Article 113(3) Article 80(4)
Article 113(4) Article 80(5)
Article 113(5) Article 80(6)
Article 113(6) Article 80(7)
Article 113(7) Article 80(8)
Article 114 Annex VI, Part I, points 1-5
Article 115(1) (4) Annex VI, Part I, points 8-11
Article 115(5)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/309
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 116(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 14
Article 116(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 14
Article 116(3)
Article 116(4) Annex VI, Part I, point 15
Article 116(5) Annex VI, Part I, point 17
Article 116(6) Annex VI, Part I, point 17
Article 117(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 18 and 19
Article 117(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 20
Article 117(3) Annex VI, Part I, point 21
Article 118 Annex VI, Part I, point 22
Article 119(1)
Article 119(2) Annex VI, Part I, points 37 and 38
Article 119(3) Annex VI, Part I, point 40
Article 119(4)
Article 119(5)
Article 120(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 29
Article 120(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 31
Article 120(3) Annex VI, Part I, points 33-36
Article 121(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 26
Article 121(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 25
Article 121(3) Annex VI, Part I, point 27
Article 122 Annex VI, Part I, points 41 and 42
Article 123 Article 79(2), 79(3) and Annex VI,
Part I, point 43
Article 124(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 44
Article 124(2)
Article 124(3)
Article 125(1)-(3) Annex VI, Part I, points 45-49
Article 125(4)
Article 126(1) and (2) Annex VI, Part I, points 51-55
Article 126(3) and (4) Annex VI, Part I, points 58 and 59
Article 127(1) and (2) Annex VI, Part I, points 61 and 62
Article 127(3) and (4) Annex VI, Part I, points 64 and 65
Article 128(1) Annex VI, Part I, points 66 and 76
Article 128(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 66
L 176/310 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 128(3)
Article 129(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 68, paragraphs
1 and 2
Article 129(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 69
Article 129(3) Annex VI, Part I, point 71
Article 129(4) Annex VI, Part I, point 70
Article 129(5)
Article 130 Annex VI, Part I, point 72
Article 131 Annex VI, Part I, point 73
Article 132(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 74
Article 132(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 75
Article 132(3) Annex VI, Part I, points 77 and 78
Article 132(4) Annex VI, Part I, point 79
Article 132(5) Annex VI, Part I, point 80 and
point 81
Article 133(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 86
Article 133(2)
Article 133(3)
Article 134(1)-(3) Annex VI, Part I, points 82-84
Article 134(4)-(7) Annex VI, Part I, points 87-90
Article 135 Article 81(1), (2) and (4)
Article 136(1) Article 82(1)
Article 136(2) Annex VI, Part 2, points 12-16
Article 136(3) Article 150(3)
Article 137(1) Annex VI, Part I, point 6
Article 137(2) Annex VI, Part I, point 7
Article 137(3)
Article 138 Annex VI, Part III, points 1-7
Article 139 Annex VI, Part III, points 8-17
Article 140(1)
Article 140(2)
Article 141
Article 142(1)
Article 142(2)
Article 143(1) Article 84 (1) and Annex VII, Part 4,
point 1
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/311
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 143(1) Article 84(2)
Article 143(1) Article 84(3)
Article 143(1) Article 84(4)
Article 143(1)
Article 144
Article 145
Article 146
Article 147(1) Article 86(9)
Article 147(2)-(9) Article 86(1)-(8)
Article 148(1) Article 85(1)
Article 148(2) Article 85(2)
Article 148(3)
Article 148(4) Article 85(3)
Article 148(5)
Article 148(1)
Article 149 Article 85(4) and (5)
Article 150(1) Article 89(1)
Article 150(2) Article 89(2)
Article 150(3)
Article 150(4)
Article 151 Article 87(1)-(10)
Article 152(1) and (2) Article 87(11)
Article 152(3) and (4) Article 87(12)
Article 152(5)
Article 153(1) Annex VII, Part I, point 3
Article 153(2)
Article 153(3)-(8) Annex VII, Part I, points 4-9
Article 153(9)
Article 154 Annex VII, Part I, points 10-16
Article 155(1) Annex VII, Part I, points 17 and 18
Article 155(2) Annex VII, Part I, points 19 to 21
Article 155(3) Annex VII, Part I, points 22 to 24
Article 155(4) Annex VII, Part I, points 25 to 26
Article 156
L 176/312 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 156 Annex VII, Part I, point 27
Article 157(1) Annex VII, Part I, point 28
Article 157(2)-(5)
Article 158(1) Article 88(2)
Article 158(2) Article 88(3)
Article 158(3) Article 88(4)
Article 158(4) Article 88(6)
Article 158(5) Annex VII, Part I, point 30
Article 158(6) Annex VII, Part I, point 31
Article 158(7) Annex VII, Part I, point 32
Article 158(8) Annex VII, Part I, point 33
Article 158(9) Annex VII, Part I, point 34
Article 158(10) Annex VII, Part I, point 35
Article 158(11)
Article 159 Annex VII, Part I, point 36
Article 160(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 2
Article 160(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 3
Article 160(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 4
Article 160(4) Annex VII, Part II, point 5
Article 160(5) Annex VII, Part II, point 6
Article 160 (6) Annex VII, Part II, point 7
Article 160(7) Annex VII, Part II, point 7
Article 161(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 8
Article 161(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 9
Article 161(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 10
Article 161(4) Annex VII, Part II, point 11
Article 162(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 12
Article 162(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 13
Article 162(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 14
Article 162(4) Annex VII, Part II, point 15
Article 162(5) Annex VII, Part II, point 16
Article 163(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 17
Article 163(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 18
Article 163(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 19
Article 163(4) Annex VII, Part II, point 20
Article 164(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 21
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/313
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 164(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 22
Article 164(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 23
Article 164(4)
Article 165(1) Annex VII, Part II, point 24
Article 165(2) Annex VII, Part II, point 25 and 26
Article 165(3) Annex VII, Part II, point 27
Article 166(1) Annex VII, Part III, point 1
Article 166(2) Annex VII, Part III, point 2
Article 166(3) Annex VII, Part III, point 3
Article 166(4) Annex VII, Part III, point 4
Article 166(5) Annex VII, Part III, point 5
Article 166(6) Annex VII, Part III, point 6
Article 166(7) Annex VII, Part III, point 7
Article 166(8) Annex VII, Part III, point 9
Article 166(9) Annex VII, Part III, point 10
Article 166(10) Annex VII, Part III, point 11
Article 167(1) Annex VII, Part III, point 12
Article 167(2)
Article 168 Annex VII, Part III, point 13
Article 169(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 2
Article 169(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 3
Article 169(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 4
Article 170(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 5-11
Article 170(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 12
Article 170(3) Annex VII, Part IV, points 13-15
Article 170(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 16
Article 171(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 17
Article 171(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 18
Article 172(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 19-23
Article 172(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 24
Article 172(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 25
Article 173(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 26-28
Article 173(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 29
Article 173(3)
Article 174 Annex VII, Part IV, point 30
L 176/314 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 175(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 31
Article 175(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 32
Article 175(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 33
Article 175(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 34
Article 175(5) Annex VII, Part IV, point 35
Article 176(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 36
Article 176(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 37
first subparagraph
Article 176(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 37
second subparagraph
Article 176(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 38
Article 176(5) Annex VII, Part IV, point 39
Article 177(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 40
Article 177(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 41
Article 177(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 42
Article 178(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 44
Article 178(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 44
Article 178(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 45
Article 178(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 46
Article 178(5) Annex VII, Part IV, point 47
Article 178(6)
Article 178(7)
Article 179(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 43 and
49-56
Article 179(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 57
Article 180(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 59-66
Article 180(2) Annex VII, Part IV, points 67-72
Article 180(3)
Article 181(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 73-81
Article 181(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 82
Article 181(3)
Article 182(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 87-92
Article 182(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 93
Article 182(3) Annex VII, Part IV, points 94 and 95
Article 182(4)
Article 183(1) Annex VII, Part IV, points 98-100
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/315
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 183(2) Annex VII, Part IV, points 101 and 102
Article 183(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 103 and
point 104
Article 183(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 96
Article 183(5) Annex VII, Part IV, point 97
Article 183(6)
Article 184(1)
Article 184(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 105
Article 184(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 106
Article 184(4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 107
Article 184(5) Annex VII, Part IV, point 108
Article 184(6) Annex VII, Part IV, point 109
Article 185 Annex VII, Part IV, points 110-114
Article 186 Annex VII, Part IV, point 115
Article 187 Annex VII, Part IV, point 116
Article 188 Annex VII, Part IV, points 117-123
Article 189(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 124
Article 189(2) Annex VII, Part IV, points 125 and 126
Article 189(3) Annex VII, Part IV, point 127
Article 190(1) Annex VII, Part IV, point 128
Article 190(2) Annex VII, Part IV, point 129
Article 190(3) (4) Annex VII, Part IV, point 130
Article 191 Annex VII, Part IV, point 131
Article 192 Article 90 and Annex VIII, Part 1,
point 2
Article 193(1) Article 93 (2)
Article 193(2) Article 93 (3)
Article 193(3) Article 93(1) and Annex VIII, Part 3,
point 1
Article 193(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 2
Article 193(5) Annex VIII, Part 5, point 1
Article 193(6) Annex VIII, Part 5, point 2
Article 194(1) Article 92(1)
Article 194(2) Article 92(2)
Article 194(3) Article 92(3)
Article 194(4) Article 92(4)
Article 194(5) Article 92(5)
L 176/316 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 194(6) Article 92(5)
Article 194(7) Article 92(6)
Article 194(8) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 1
Article 194(9) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 2
Article 194(10)
Article 195 Annex VIII, Part 1, points 3 and 4
Article 196 Annex VIII, Part 1, point 5
Article 197(1) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 7
Article 197(2) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 7
Article 197(3) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 7
Article 197(4) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 8
Article 197(5) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 9
Article 197(6) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 9
Article 197(7) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 10
Article 197(8)
Article 198(1) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 11
Article 198(2) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 11
Article 199(1) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 12
Article 199(2) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 13
Article 199(3) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 16
Article 199(4) Annex VIII, Part 1, points 17 and 18
Article 199(5) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 20
Article 199(6) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 21
Article 199(7) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 22
Article 199(8)
Article 200 Annex VIII, Part 1, points 23 to 25
Article 201(1) Annex VIII, Part 1, points 26 and 28
Article 201(2) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 27
Article 202 Annex VIII, Part 1, point 29
Article 203
Article 204(1) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 30 and
point 31
Article 204(2) Annex VIII, Part 1, point 32
Article 205 Annex VIII, Part 2, point 3
Article 206 Annex VIII, Part 2, points 4 to 5
Article 207(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 6
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/317
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 207(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 6(a)
Article 207(3) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 6(b)
Article 207(4) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 6(c)
Article 207(5) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 7
Article 208(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 8
Article 208(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 8(a)
Article 208(3) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 8(b)
Article 208(4) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 8(c)
Article 208(5) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 8(d)
Article 209(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 9
Article 209(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 9(a)
Article 209(3) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 9(b)
Article 210 Annex VIII, Part 2, point 10
Article 211 Annex VIII, Part 2, point 11
Article 212(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 12
Article 212(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 13
Article 213 (1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 14
Article 213(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 15
Article 213(3)
Article 214(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 16(a) to (c)
Article 214(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 16
Article 214(3) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 17
Article 215(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 18
Article 215(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 19
Article 216(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 20
Article 216(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 21
Article 217(1) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 22
Article 217(2) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 22(c)
Article 217(3) Annex VIII, Part 2, point 22(c)
Article 218 Annex VIII, Part 3, point 3
Article 219 Annex VIII, Part 3, point 4
Article 220(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 5
Article 220(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 6, 8 to 10
Article 220(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 11
Article 220(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 22 and 23
L 176/318 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 220(5) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 9
Article 221(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 12
Article 221(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 12
Article 221(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 13 to 15
Article 221(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point16
Article 221(5) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 18 and 19
Article 221(6) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 20 and 21
Article 221(7) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 17
Article 221(8) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 22 and 23
Article 221(9)
Article 222(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 24
Article 222(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 25
Article 222(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 26
Article 222(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 27
Article 222(5) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 28
Article 222(6) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 29
Article 222(7) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 28 and 29
Article 223(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 30 to 32
Article 223(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 33
Article 223(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 33
Article 223(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 33
Article 223(5) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 33
Article 223(6) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 34 and 35
Article 223(7) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 35
Article 224(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 36
Article 224(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 37
Article 224(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 38
Article 224(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 39
Article 224(5) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 40
Article 224(6) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 41
Article 225(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 42 to 46
Article 225(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 47 to 52
Article 225(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 53 to 56
Article 226 Annex VIII, Part 3, point 57
Article 227(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 58
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/319
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 227(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 58(a) to (h)
Article 227(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 58(h)
Article 228(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 60
Article 228(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 61
Article 229(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 62 to 65
Article 229(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 66
Article 229(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 63 and 67
Article 230(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 68 to 71
Article 230(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 72
Article 230(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 73 and 74
Article 231(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 76
Article 231(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 77
Article 231(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 78
Article 231(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 79
Article 231(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 80
Article 231(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 80a
Article 231(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, points 81 to 82
Article 232(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 83
Article 232(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 83
Article 232(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 84
Article 232(4) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 85
Article 234 Annex VIII, Part 3, point 86
Article 235(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 87
Article 235(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 88
Article 235(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 89
Article 236(1) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 90
Article 236(2) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 91
Article 236(3) Annex VIII, Part 3, point 92
Article 237(1) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 1
Article 237(2) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 2
Article 238(1) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 3
Article 238(2) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 4
Article 238(3) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 5
Article 239(1) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 6
Article 239(2) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 7
L 176/320 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 239(3) Annex VIII, Part 4, point 8
Article 240 Annex VIII, Part 6, point 1
Article 241 Annex VIII, Part 6, point 2
Article 242(1) to (9) Annex IX, Part I, point 1
Article 242(10) Article 4 point 37
Article 242(11) Article 4 point 38
Article 242(12)
Article 242(13)
Article 242(14)
Article 242(15)
Article 243(1) Annex IX, Part II, point 1
Article 243(2) Annex IX, Part II, point 1a
Article 243(3) Annex IX, Part II, point 1b
Article 243(4) Annex IX, Part II, point 1c
Article 243(5) Annex IX, Part II, point 1d
Article 243(6)
Article 244(1) Annex IX, Part II, point 2
Article 244(2) Annex IX, Part II, point 2a
Article 244(3) Annex IX, Part II, point 2b
Article 244(4) Annex IX, Part II, point 2c
Article 244(5) Annex IX, Part II, point 2d
Article 244(6)
Article 245(1) Article 95(1)
Article 245(2) Article 95(2)
Article 245(3) Article 96(2)
Article 245(4) Article 96(4)
Article 245(5)
Article 245(6)
Article 246(1) Annex IX, Part IV, points 2 and 3
Article 246(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 5
Article 246(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 5
Article 247(1) Article 96(3), Annex IX, Part IV,
point 60
Article 247(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 61
Article 247(3)
Article 247(4)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/321
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 248(1) Article 101(1)
Article 248(2)
Article 248(3) Article 101(2)
Article 249 Annex IX, Part II, points 3 and 4
Article 250 Annex IX, Part II, points 5-7
Article 251 Annex IX, Part IV, point 6-7
Article 252 Annex IX, Part IV, point 8
Article 253(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 9
Article 253(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 10
Article 254 Annex IX, Part IV, point 11-12
Article 255(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 13
Article 255(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 15
Article 256(1) Article 100(1)
Article 256(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 17-20
Article 256(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 21
Article 256(4) Annex IX, Part IV, points 22-23
Article 256(5) Annex IX, Part IV, point 24-25
Article 256(6) Annex IX, Part IV, point 26-29
Article 256(7) Annex IX, Part IV, point 30
Article 256(8) Annex IX, Part IV, point 32
Article 256(9) Annex IX, Part IV, point 33
Article 257 Annex IX, Part IV, point 34
Article 258 Annex IX, Part IV, point 35-36
Article 259(1) Annex IX, Part IV, points 38-41
Article 259(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 42
Article 259(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 43
Article 259(4) Annex IX, Part IV, point 44
Article 259(5)
Article 260 Annex IX, Part IV, point 45
Article 261(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 46-47, 49
Article 261(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 51
Article 262(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 52, 53
Article 262(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 53
Article 262(3)
Article 262(4) Annex IX, Part IV, point 54
Article 263(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 57
L 176/322 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 263(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 58
Article 263(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 59
Article 264(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 62
Article 264(2) Annex IX, Part IV, points 63-65
Article 264(3) Annex IX, Part IV, points 66 and 67
Article 264(4)
Article 265(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 68
Article 265(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 70
Article 265(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 71
Article 266(1) Annex IX, Part IV, point 72
Article 266(2) Annex IX, Part IV, point 73
Article 266(3) Annex IX, Part IV, point 74-75
Article 266(4) Annex IX, Part IV, point 76
Article 267(1) Article 97(1)
Article 267(3) Article 97(3)
Article 268 Annex IX, Part III, point 1
Article 269 Annex IX, Part III, point 2-7
Article 270 Article 98 (1) and Annex IX, Part III,
points 8 and 9
Article 271(1) Annex III, Part II, point 1
Annex VII, Part III, point 5
Article 271(2) Annex VII, Part III, point 7
Article 272(1) Annex III, Part I, point 1
Article 272(2) Annex III, Part I, point 3
Article 272(3) Annex III, Part I, point 4
Article 272 (4) Annex III, Part I, point 5
Article 272(5) Annex III, Part I, point 6
Article 272(6) Annex III, Part I, point 7
Article 272(7) Annex III, Part I, point 8
Article 272(8) Annex III, Part I, point 9
Article 272(9) Annex III, Part I, point 10
Article 272(10) Annex III, Part I, point 11
Article 272(11) Annex III, Part I, point 12
Article 272(12) Annex III, Part I, point 13
Article 272(13) Annex III, Part I, point 14
Article 272(14) Annex III, Part I, point 15
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/323
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 272(15) Annex III, Part I, point 16
Article 272(16) Annex III, Part I, point 17
Article 272(17) Annex III, Part I, point 18
Article 272(18) Annex III, Part I, point 19
Article 272(19) Annex III, Part I, point 20
Article 272(20) Annex III, Part I, point 21
Article 272(21) Annex III, Part I, point 22
Article 272(22) Annex III, Part I, point 23
Article 272(23) Annex III, Part I, point 26
Article 272(24) Annex III, Part VII, point a)
Article 272(25) Annex III, Part VII, point a)
Article 272(26) Annex III; Part V, point 2
Article 273(1) Annex III, Part II, point 1
Article 273(2) Annex III, Part II, point 2
Article 273(3) Annex III, Part II, point 3 first and
second subparagraph
Article 273(4) Annex III, Part II, point 3 third
subparagraph
Article 273(5) Annex III, Part II, point 4
Article 273(6) Annex III, Part II, point 5
Article 273(7) Annex III, Part II, point 7
Article 273(8) Annex III, Part II, point 8
Article 274(1) Annex III, Part III
Article 274(2) Annex III, Part III
Article 274(3) Annex III, Part III
Article 274(4) Annex III, Part III
Article 275(1) Annex III, Part IV
Article 275(2) Annex III, Part IV
Article 276(1) Annex III, Part V, point 1
Article 276(2) Annex III, Part V, point 1
Article 276(3) Annex III, Part V, points 1-2
Article 277(1) Annex III, Part V, point 3-4
Article 277(2) Annex III, Part V, point 5
Article 277(3) Annex III, Part V, point 6
Article 277(4) Annex III, Part V, point 7
Article 278(1)
Article 278(2) Annex III, Part V, point 8
L 176/324 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 278(3) Annex III, Part V, point 9
Article 279 Annex III, Part V, point 10
Article 280(1) Annex III, Part V, point 11
Article 280(2) Annex III, Part V, point 12
Article 281(1)
Article 281(2) Annex III, Part V, point 13
Article 281(3) Annex III, Part V, point 14
Article 282(1)
Article 282(2) Annex III, Part V, point 15
Article 282(3) Annex III, Part V, point 16
Article 282(4) Annex III, Part V, point 17
Article 282(5) Annex III, Part V, point 18
Article 282(6) Annex III, Part V, point 19
Article 282(7) Annex III, Part V, point 20
Article 282(8) Annex III, Part V, point 21
Article 283(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 1
Article 283(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 2
Article 283(3) Annex III, Part VI, point 2
Article 283(4) Annex III, Part VI, point 3
Article 283(5) Annex III, Part VI, point 4
Article 283(6) Annex III, Part VI, point 4
Article 284(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 5
Article 284(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 6
Article 284(3)
Article 284(4) Annex III, Part VI, point 7
Article 284(5) Annex III, Part VI, point 8
Article 284(6) Annex III, Part VI, point 9
Article 284(7) Annex III, Part VI, point 10
Article 284(8) Annex III, Part VI, point 11
Article 284(9) Annex III, Part VI, point 12
Article 284(10) Annex III, Part VI, point 13
Article 284(11) Annex III, Part VI, point 9
Article 284(12)
Article 284(13) Annex III, Part VI, point 14
Article 285(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 15
Article 285(2)-(8)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/325
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 286(1) Annex III, Part VI, points 18 and 25
Article 286(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 19
Article 286(3)
Article 286(4) Annex III, Part VI, point 20
Article 286(5) Annex III, Part VI, point 21
Article 286(6) Annex III, Part VI, point 22
Article 286(7) Annex III, Part VI, point 23
Article 286(8) Annex III, Part VI, point 24
Article 287(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 17
Article 287(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 17
Article 287(3)
Article 287(4)
Article 288 Annex III, Part VI, point 26
Article 289(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 27
Article 289(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 28
Article 289(3) Annex III, Part VI, point 29
Article 289(4) Annex III, Part VI, point 29
Article 289(5) Annex III, Part VI, point 30
Article 289(6) Annex III, Part VI, point 31
Article 290(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 32
Article 290(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 32
Article 290(3)-(10)
Article 291(1) Annex I, Part I, points 27-28
Article 291(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 34
Article 291(3)
Article 291(4) Annex III, Part VI, point 35
Article 291(5)
Article 291(6)
Article 292(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 36
Article 292(2) Annex III, Part VI, point 37
Article 292(3)
Article 292(4)
Article 292(5)
Article 292(6) Annex III, Part VI, point 38
Article 292(7) Annex III, Part VI, point 39
Article 292(8) Annex III, Part VI, point 40
L 176/326 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 292(9) Annex III, Part VI, point 41
Article 292(10)
Article 293(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 42
Article 293(2)-(6)
Article 294(1) Annex III, Part VI, point 42
Article 294(2)
Article 294(3) Annex III, Part VI, point 42
Article 295 Annex III, Part VII, point a)
Article 296(1) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 296(2) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 296(3) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 297(1) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 297(2) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 297(3) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 297(4) Annex III, Part VII, point b)
Article 298(1) Annex III, Part VII, point c)
Article 298(2) Annex III, Part VII, point c)
Article 298(3) Annex III, Part VII, point c)
Article 298(4) Annex III, Part VII, point c)
Article 299(1) Annex II, point 7
Article 299(2) Annex II, points 7-11
Article 300
Article 301 Annex III, Part 2, point 6
Article 302
Article 303
Article 304
Article 305
Article 306
Article 307
Article 308
Article 309
Article 310
Article 311
Article 312(1) Article 104(3) and (6) and Annex X,
Part 2, points 2, 5 and 8
Article 312(2) Article 105(1) and 105(2) and
Annex X, Part 3, point 1
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/327
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 312(3)
Article 312(4) Article 105(1)
Article 313(1) Article 102(2)
Article 313(2) Article 102(3)
Article 313(3)
Article 314(1) Article 102(4)
Article 314(2) Annex X, Part 4, point 1
Article 314(3) Annex X, Part 4, point 2
Article 314(4) Annex X, Part 4, points 3 and 4
Article 314(5)
Article 315(1) Article 103 and Annex X, Part 1,
points 1 to 3
Article 315(2)
Article 315(3)
Article 315(4) Annex X, Part 1, point 4
Article 316(1) Annex X, Part 1, points 5 to 8
Article 316(2) Annex X, Part 1, point 9
Article 316(3)
Article 317(1) Article 104 (1)
Article 317(2) Article 104(2) and (4) and Annex X,
Part 2, point 1
Article 317(3) Annex X, Part 2, point 1
Article 317(4) Annex X, Part 2, point 2
Article 318(1) Annex X, Part 2, point 4
Article 318(2) Annex X, Part 2, point 4
Article 318(3)
Article 319(1) Annex X, Part 2, points 6 to 7
Article 319(2) Annex X, Part 2, points 10 and 11
Article 320 Annex X, Part 2, points 9 and 12
Article 321 Annex X, Part 3, points 2 to 7
Article 322(1)
Article 322(2) Annex X, Part 3, points 8 to 12
Article 322(3) Annex X, Part 3, points 13 to 18
Article 322(4) Annex X, Part 3, point 19
Article 322(5) Annex X, Part 3, point 20
Article 322(6) Annex X, Part 3, points 21 to 24
Article 323(1) Annex X, Part 3, point 25
L 176/328 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 323(2) Annex X, Part 3, point 26
Article 323(3) Annex X, Part 3, point 27
Article 323(4) Annex X, Part 3, point 28
Article 323(5) Annex X, Part 3, point 29
Article 324 Annex X, Part 5
Article 325(1) Article 26
Article 325(2) Article 26
Article 325(3)
Article 326
Article 327(1) Annex I point 1
Article 327(2) Annex I point 2
Article 327(3) Annex I point 3
Article 328(1) Annex I point 4
Article 328(2)
Article 329(1) Annex I point 5
Article 329(2)
Article 330 Annex I point 7
Article 331(1) Annex I point 9
Article 331(2) Annex I point 10
Article 332(1) Annex I point 8
Article 332(2) Annex I point 8
Article 333 Annex I point 11
Article 334 Annex I point 13
Article 335 Annex I point 14
Article 336(1) Annex I point 14
Article 336(2) Annex I point 14
Article 336(3) Annex I point 14
Article 336(4) Article 19(1)
Article 337(1) Annex I point 16a
Article 337(2) Annex I point 16a
Article 337(3) Annex I point 16a
Article 337(4) Annex I point 16a
Article 337(4) Annex I point 16a
Article 338(1) Annex I point 14a
Article 338(2) Annex I point 14b
Article 338(3) Annex I point 14c
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/329
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 338(4) Annex I point 14a
Article 339(1) Annex I point 17
Article 339(2) Annex I point 18
Article 339(3) Annex I point 19
Article 339(4) Annex I point 20
Article 339(5) Annex I point 21
Article 339(6) Annex I point 22
Article 339(7) Annex I point 23
Article 339(8) Annex I point 24
Article 339(9) Annex I point 25
Article 340(1) Annex I point 26
Article 340(2) Annex I point 27
Article 340(3) Annex I point 28
Article 340(4) Annex I point 29
Article 340(5) Annex I point 30
Article 340(6) Annex I point 31
Article 340(7) Annex I point 32
Article 341(1) Annex I point 33
Article 341(2) Annex I point 33
Article 341(3)
Article 342 Annex I point 34
Article 343 Annex I point 36
Article 344(1)
Article 344(2) Annex I point 37
Article 344(3) Annex I point 38
Article 345(1) Annex I point 41
Article 345(2) Annex I point 41
Article 346(1) Annex I point 42
Article 346(2)
Article 346(3) Annex I point 43
Article 346(4) Annex I point 44
Article 346(5) Annex I point 45
Article 346(6) Annex I point 46
Article 347 Annex I point 8
Article 348(1) Annex I points 48-49
Article 348(2) Annex I point 50
L 176/330 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 349 Annex I point 51
Article 350(1) Annex I point 53
Article 350(2) Annex I point 54
Article 350(3) Annex I point 55
Article 350(4) Annex I point 56
Article 351 Annex III point 1
Article 352(1) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 352(2) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 352(3) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 352(4) Annex III point 2(2)
Article 352(5)
Article 353(1) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 353(2) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 353(3) Annex III point 2(1)
Article 354(1) Annex III point 3(1)
Article 354(2) Annex III point 3(2)
Article 354(3) Annex III point 3(2)
Article 354(4)
Article 355
Article 356
Article 357(1) Annex IV point 1
Article 357(2) Annex IV point 2
Article 357(3) Annex IV point 3
Article 357(4) Annex IV point 4
Article 357(5) Annex IV point 6
Article 358(1) Annex IV point 8
Article 358(2) Annex IV point 9
Article 358(3) Annex IV point 10
Article 358(4) Annex IV point 12
Article 359(1) Annex IV point 13
Article 359(2) Annex IV point 14
Article 359(3) Annex IV point 15
Article 359(4) Annex IV point 16
Article 359(5) Annex IV point 17
Article 359(6) Annex IV point 18
Article 360(1) Annex IV point 19
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/331
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 360(2) Annex IV point 20
Article 361 Annex IV point 21
Article 362
Article 363(1) Annex V point 1
Article 363(2)
Article 363(3)
Article 364(1) Annex V point 10b
Article 364(2)
Article 364(3)
Article 365(1) Annex V point 10
Article 365(2) Annex V point 10a
Article 366(1) Annex V point 7
Article 366(2) Annex V point 8
Article 366(3) Annex V point 9
Article 366(4) Annex V point 10
Article 366(5) Annex V point 8
Article 367(1) Annex V point 11
Article 367(2) Annex V point 12
Article 367(3) Annex V point 12
Article 368(1) Annex V point 2
Article 368(2) Annex V point 2
Article 368(3) Annex V point 5
Article 368(4)
Article 369(1) Annex V point 3
Article 369(2)
Article 370(1) Annex V point 5
Article 371(1) Annex V point 5
Article 371(2)
Article 372 Annex V point 5a
Article 373 Annex V point 5b
Article 374(1) Annex V point 5c
Article 374(2) Annex V point 5d
Article 374(3) Annex V point 5d
Article 374(4) Annex V point 5d
Article 374(5) Annex V point 5d
Article 374(6) Annex V point 5d
L 176/332 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 374(7)
Article 375(1) Annex V point 5a
Article 375(2) Annex V point 5e
Article 376(1) Annex V point 5f
Article 376(2) Annex V point 5g
Article 376(3) Annex V point 5h
Article 376(4) Annex V point 5h
Article 376(5) Annex V point 5i
Article 376(6) Annex V point 5
Article 377 Annex V point 5l
Article 378 Annex II point 1
Article 379(1) Annex II point 2
Article 379(2) Annex II point 3
Article 379(3) Annex II point 2
Article 380 Annex II point 4
Article 381
Article 382
Article 383
Article 384
Article 385
Article 386
Article 387 Article 28(1)
Article 388
Article 389 Article 106 (1) subparagraph 1
Article 390(1) Article 106(1) subparagraph 2
Article 390(2)
Article 390(3) Article 29(1)
Article 390(4) Article 30(1)
Article 390(5) Article 29(2)
Article 390(6) Article 106(2) subparagraph 1
Article 390(7) Article 106(3)
Article 390(8) Article 106(2) subparagraphs 2 and 3
Article 391 Article 107
Article 392 Article 108
Article 393 Article 109
Article 394(1) Article 110(1)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/333
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 394(2) Article 110(1)
Article 394(3) and (4) Article 110 (2)
Article 394(4) Article 110 (2)
Article 395(1) Article 111(1)
Article 395(2)
Article 395(3) Article 111 (4) subparagraph 1
Article 395(4) Article 30 (4)
Article 395(5) Article 31
Article 395(6)
Article 395(7)
Article 395(8)
Article 396(1) Article 111 (4) subparagraphs 1 and 2
Article 396 (2)
Article 397(1) Annex VI, point 1
Article 397(2) Annex VI, point 2
Article 397(3) Annex VI, point 3
Article 398 Article 32(1)
Article 399(1) Article 112(1)
Article 399(2) Article 112(2)
Article 399(3) Article 112(3)
Article 399(4) Article 110 (3)
Article 400(1) Article 113(3)
Article 400(2) Article 113(4)
Article 400(3)
Article 401(1) Article 114(1)
Article 401(2) Article 114(2)
Article 401(3) Article 114(3)
Article 402(1) Article 115(1)
Article 402(2) Article 115(2)
Article 402(3)
Article 403(1) Article 117(1)
Article 403(2) Article 117(2)
Article 404 Article 122a(8)
Article 405(1) Article 122a(1)
Article 405(2) Article 122a(2)
L 176/334 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 405(3) Article 122a(3) subparagraph 1
Article 405(4) Article 122a(3) subparagraph 1
Article 406(1) Article 122a(4) and Article 122a (5)
subparagraph 2
Article 406(2) Article 122a(5) subparagraph 1 and
Article 122a(6) subparagraph 1
Article 407 Article 122a(5) subparagraph 1
Article 408 Article 122a(6) subparagraphs 1 and 2
Article 409 Article 122a(7)
Article 410 Article 122a(10)
Article 411
Article 412
Article 413
Article 414
Article 415
Article 416
Article 417
Article 418
Article 419
Article 420
Article 421
Article 422
Article 423
Article 424
Article 425
Article 426
Article 427
Article 428
Article 429
Article 430
Article 431(1) Article 145(1)
Article 431(2) Article 145(2)
Article 431(3) Article 145(3)
Article 431(4) Article 145(4)
Article 432(1) Annex XII, Part I, point 1 and
Article 146(1)
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/335
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 432(2) Article 146(2) and Annex XII, Part I,
points 2 and 3
Article 432(3) Article 146(3)
Article 433 Article 147 and Annex XII, Part I,
point 4
Article 434(1) Article 148
Article 434(2)
Article 435(1) Annex XII, Part II, point 1
Article 435(2)
Article 436 Annex XII, Part II, point 2
Article 437
Article 438 Annex XII, Part II, points 4, 8
Article 439 Annex XII, Part II, point 5
Article 440
Article 441
Article 442 Annex XII, Part II, point 6
Article 443
Article 444 Annex XII, Part II, point 7
Article 445 Annex XII, Part II, point 9
Article 446 Annex XII, Part II, point 11
Article 447 Annex XII, Part II, point 12
Article 448 Annex XII, Part II, point 13
Article 449 Annex XII, Part II, point 14
Article 450 Annex XII, Part II, point 15
Article 451
Article 452 Annex XII, Part III, point 1
Article 453 Annex XII, Part III, point 2
Article 454 Annex XII, Part III, point 3
Article 455
Article 456, subparagraph 1 Article 150(1) Article 41
Article 456, subparagraph 2
Article 457
Article 458
Article 459
Article 460
Article 461
L 176/336 EN Official Journal of the European Union 27.6.2013
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 462(1) Article 151a
Article 462(2) Article 151a
Article 462(3) Article 151a
Article 462(4)
Article 462(5)
Article 463
Article 464
Article 465
Article 466
Article 467
Article 468
Article 469
Article 470
Article 471
Article 472
Article 473
Article 474
Article 475
Article 476
Article 477
Article 478
Article 479
Article 480
Article 481
Article 482
Article 483
Article 484
Article 485
Article 486
Article 487
Article 488
Article 489
Article 490
Article 491
Article 492
27.6.2013 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 176/337
This Regulation Directive 2006/48/EC Directive 2006/49/EC
Article 493(1)
Article 493 (2)
Article 494
Article 495
Article 496
Article 497
Article 498
Article 499
Article 500
Article 501
Article 502
Article 503
Article 504
Article 505
Article 506
Article 507
Article 508
Article 509
Article 510
Article 511
Article 512
Article 513
Article 514
Article 515
Article 516
Article 517
Article 518
Article 519
Article 520
Article 521
Annex I Annex II
Annex II Annex IV
Annex III