L 60/34 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
DIRECTIVES
DIRECTIVE 2014/17/EU OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 4 February 2014
on credit agreements for consumers relating to residential immovable property and amending
Directives 2008/48/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE credit intermediaries and non-credit institutions
EUROPEAN UNION, providing credit agreements relating to residential
immovable property were also launched.
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
Union, and in particular Article 114 thereof,
(2) In accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union (TFEU), the internal market comprises
an area without internal frontiers in which the free
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
movement of goods and services and the freedom of
establishment are ensured. The development of a more
transparent and efficient credit market within that area is
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national vital in promoting the development of cross-border
parliaments, activity and creating an internal market for credit
agreements relating to residential immovable property.
There are substantial differences in the laws of the
various Member States with regard to the conduct of
Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank ( 1) ,
business in the granting of credit agreements relating
to residential immovable property and in the regulation
and supervision of credit intermediaries and non-credit
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and institutions providing credit agreements relating to resi­
Social Committee ( 2 ), dential immovable property. Such differences create
obstacles that restrict the level of cross-border activity
on the supply and demand sides, thus reducing
competition and choice in the market, raising the cost
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure ( 3) , of lending for providers and even preventing them from
doing business.
Whereas:
(3) The financial crisis has shown that irresponsible
behaviour by market participants can undermine the
(1) In March 2003, the Commission launched a process of
foundations of the financial system, leading to a lack
identifying and assessing the impact of barriers to the
of confidence among all parties, in particular consumers,
internal market for credit agreements relating to resi­
and potentially severe social and economic consequences.
dential immovable property. On 18 December 2007, it
Many consumers have lost confidence in the financial
adopted a White Paper on the Integration of EU
sector and borrowers have found their loans increasingly
Mortgage Credit Markets. The White Paper announced
unaffordable, resulting in defaults and forced sales rising.
the Commission’s intention to assess the impact of,
As a result, the G20 has commissioned work from the
among other things, the policy options for pre-
Financial Stability Board to establish principles on sound
contractual information, credit databases, creditwor­
underwriting standards in relation to residential
thiness, the annual percentage rate of charge (APRC)
immovable property. Although some of the greatest
and advice on credit agreements. The Commission
problems in the financial crisis occurred outside the
established an Expert Group on Credit Histories to
Union, consumers within the Union hold significant
assist the Commission in preparing measures to
levels of debt, much of which is concentrated in credits
improve the accessibility, comparability and completeness
related to residential immovable property. It is therefore
of credit data. Studies on the role and operations of
appropriate to ensure that the Union’s regulatory
framework in this area is robust, consistent with inter­
( 1 ) OJ C 240, 18.8.2011, p. 3.
national principles and makes appropriate use of the
(( 2
3
)
)
O PoJ
s
iC
ti
o3 n1 8 o,
f
2 th9 e.1 E0 u.2 ro0 p1 e1 a,
n
p P. a1 rl3 ia3 m.
ent of 10 December 2013 (not yet
range of tools available, which may include the use of
published in the Official Journal) and decision of the Council of loan-to-value, loan-to-income, debt-to-income or similar
28 January 2014. ratios, minimum levels below which no credit would be
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/35
deemed acceptable or other compensatory measures for and financial inclusion, and hence providing a high level
the situations where the underlying risks are higher to of consumer protection.
consumers or where needed to prevent household over-
indebtedness. In view of the problems brought to light in
the financial crisis and with a view to ensuring an
(7) In order to create a genuine internal market with a high
efficient and competitive internal market which
and equivalent level of consumer protection, this
contributes to financial stability, the Commission has
Directive lays down provisions subject to maximum
proposed, in its Communication of 4 March 2009
harmonisation in relation to the provision of pre-
entitled ‘Driving European recovery’, measures with
contractual information through the European Stan­
regard to credit agreements relating to residential
dardised Information Sheet (ESIS) standardised format
immovable property, including a reliable framework on
and the calculation of the APRC. However, taking into
credit intermediation, in the context of delivering
account the specificity of credit agreements relating to
responsible and reliable markets for the future and
immovable property and differences in market devel­
restoring consumer confidence. The Commission reaf­
opments and conditions in Member States, concerning
firmed its commitment to an efficient and competitive
in particular market structure and market participants,
internal market in its Communication of 13 April 2011
categories of products available and procedures
entitled ‘Single Market Act: Twelve levers to boost
involved in the credit granting process, Member States
growth and strengthen confidence’.
should be allowed to maintain or introduce more
stringent provisions than those laid down in this
Directive in those areas not clearly specified as being
subject to maximum harmonisation. Such a targeted
(4) A series of problems have been identified in mortgage approach is necessary in order to avoid adversely
markets within the Union relating to irresponsible affecting the level of protection of consumers relating
lending and borrowing and the potential scope for irre­ to credit agreements in the scope of this Directive.
sponsible behaviour by market participants including Member States should, for example, be allowed to
credit intermediaries and non-credit institutions. Some maintain or introduce more stringent provisions with
problems concerned credits denominated in a foreign regard to knowledge and competence requirements for
currency which consumers had taken out in that staff and instructions for completing the ESIS.
currency in order to take advantage of the borrowing
rate offered but without having adequate information
about or understanding of the exchange rate risk
(8) This Directive should improve conditions for the estab­
involved. Those problems are driven by market and regu­
lishment and functioning of the internal market through
latory failures as well as other factors such as the general
the approximation of Member States’ laws and the estab­
economic climate and low levels of financial literacy.
lishment of quality standards for certain services, in
Other problems include ineffective, inconsistent, or
particular with regard to the distribution and provision
non-existent regimes for credit intermediaries and non-
of credit through creditors and credit intermediaries and
credit institutions providing credit for residential
the promotion of good practices. The establishment of
immovable property. The problems identified have
quality standards for services for the provision of credit
potentially significant macroeconomic spill-over effects,
necessarily involves the introduction of certain provisions
can lead to consumer detriment, act as economic or
regarding admission, supervision and prudential require­
legal barriers to cross-border activity and create an
ments.
unlevel playing field between actors.
(9) For those areas not covered by this Directive, Member
States are free to maintain or introduce national law. In
(5) In order to facilitate the emergence of a smoothly func­
particular, Member States may maintain or introduce
tioning internal market with a high level of consumer
national provisions in areas such as contract law
protection in the area of credit agreements relating to
relating to the validity of credit agreements, property
immovable property and in order to ensure that
law, land registration, contractual information and, to
consumers looking for such agreements are able to do
the extent that they are not regulated in this Directive,
so confident in the knowledge that the institutions they
post-contractual issues. Member States may provide that
interact with act in a professional and responsible
the appraiser or appraisal company or notaries may be
manner, an appropriately harmonised Union legal
chosen by mutual agreement of the parties. Given the
framework needs to be established in a number of
differences between the processes for the purchase or
areas, taking into account differences in credit
sale of residential immovable property in the Member
agreements arising in particular from differences in
States, there is scope for creditors or credit intermediaries
national and regional immovable property markets.
to seek to receive payments in advance from consumers
on the understanding that such payments could help to
secure the conclusion of a credit agreement or the
purchase or sale of an immovable property, and for
(6) This Directive should therefore develop a more such practices to be misused in particular where
transparent, efficient and competitive internal consumers are unfamiliar with the requirements and
market, through consistent, flexible and fair credit usual practice in that Member State. It is therefore appro­
agreements relating to immovable property, while priate to allow Member States to impose restrictions on
promoting sustainable lending and borrowing such payments.
L 60/36 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(10) This Directive should apply irrespective of whether the where such sub-categories are necessary at national level
creditor or credit intermediary is a legal person or a for instance to differentiate the level of knowledge and
natural person. However, this Directive should not competence requirements to be fulfilled by the different
affect the right of Member States to limit, in conformity credit intermediaries.
with Union law, the role of creditor or credit inter­
mediary under this Directive to legal persons only or
to certain types of legal persons.
(15) The objective of this Directive is to ensure that
consumers entering into credit agreements relating to
immovable property benefit from a high level of
protection. It should therefore apply to credits secured
(11) Since consumers and enterprises are not in the same
by immovable property regardless of the purpose of the
position, they do not need the same level of protection.
credit, refinancing agreements or other credit agreements
While it is important to guarantee the rights of
that would help an owner or part owner continue to
consumers by means of provisions that cannot be
retain rights in immovable property or land and credits
derogated from by contract, it is reasonable to allow
which are used to purchase an immovable property in
enterprises and organisations to enter into other agree­
some Member States including credits that do not require
ments.
the reimbursement of the capital or, unless Member
States have an adequate alternative framework in place,
those whose purpose is to provide temporary financing
between the sale of one immovable property and the
(12) The definition of consumer should cover natural persons
purchase of another, and to secured credits for the reno­
who are acting outside their trade, business or profession.
vation of residential immovable property.
However, in the case of dual purpose contracts, where
the contract is concluded for purposes partly within and
partly outside the person’s trade, business or profession
and the trade, business or professional purpose is so
(16) This Directive should not apply to certain credit
limited as not to be predominant in the overall context
agreements where the creditor contributes a lump sum,
of the contract, that person should also be considered as
periodic payments or other forms of credit disbursement
a consumer.
in return for a sum deriving from the sale of an
immovable property and whose primary objective is to
facilitate consumption, such as equity release products or
other equivalent specialised products. Such credit
(13) While this Directive regulates credit agreements which agreements have specific characteristics which are
solely or predominantly relate to residential immovable beyond the scope of this Directive. An assessment of
property, it does not prevent Member States from the consumer’s creditworthiness, for example, is
extending the measures taken in accordance with this irrelevant since the payments are made from the
Directive to protect consumers in relation to credit creditor to the consumer rather than the other way
agreements related to other forms of immovable round. Such a transaction would require, inter alia,
property, or from otherwise regulating such credit agree­ substantially different pre-contractual information.
ments. Furthermore, other products, such as home reversions,
which have comparable functions to reverse mortgages
or lifetime mortgages, do not involve the provision of
credit and so would remain outside the scope of this
(14) The definitions set out in this Directive determine the Directive.
scope of harmonisation. The obligations of Member
States to transpose this Directive should therefore be
limited to its scope as determined by those definitions.
For instance, the obligations of Member States to (17) This Directive should not cover other explicitly listed
transpose this Directive are limited to credit agreements types of niche credit agreements, that are different in
concluded with consumers, meaning with natural their nature and risks involved from standard mortgage
persons who, in transactions covered by this Directive, credits and therefore require a tailored approach, in
are acting outside their trade, business or profession. particular credit agreements which are the outcome of
Similarly, Member States are obliged to transpose a settlement reached in court or before another
provisions of this Directive regulating the activity of statutory authority, and certain types of credit
persons acting as credit intermediary as defined in the agreements where the credit is granted by an employer
Directive. However, this Directive should be without to his employees under certain circumstances, as already
prejudice to the application by Member States, in provided in Directive 2008/48/EC of the European
accordance with Union law, of this Directive to areas Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on
not covered by its scope. In addition, the definitions credit agreements for consumers ( 1) . It is appropriate to
set out in this Directive should be without prejudice to allow Member States to exclude certain credit agree­
the possibility for Member States to adopt sub-definitions ments, such as those which are granted to a restricted
under national law for specific purposes, provided that public on advantageous terms or provided by credit
they are still compliant with the definitions set out in this unions, provided that adequate alternative arrangements
Directive. For example, Member States should be allowed are in place to ensure that policy objectives relating to
to determine under national law sub-categories of credit
intermediaries that are not identified in this Directive, ( 1 ) OJ L 133, 22.5.2008, p. 66.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/37
financial stability and the internal market can be met fees, and that creditors assess the consumer’s creditwor­
without impeding financial inclusion and access to thiness before providing a credit. Similarly, non-discrimi­
credit. Credit agreements where the immovable natory access for creditors to relevant credit databases
property is not to be occupied as a house, apartment should be ensured in order to achieve a level playing
or another place of residence by the consumer or a field with the provisions laid down in Directive
family member of the consumer and is occupied as a 2008/48/EC. Similarly to Directive 2008/48/EC, this
house, apartment or another place of residence on a Directive should ensure the appropriate admission
basis of a rental agreement, have risks and features that process and supervision of all creditors providing credit
are different from standard credit agreements and agreements relating to immovable property and should
therefore may require a more adapted framework. lay down requirements for the establishment of, and
Member States should therefore be able to exclude such access to, out-of-court dispute resolution mechanisms.
credit agreements from the Directive where an appro­
priate national framework is in place for them.
(21) This Directive should supplement Directive 2002/65/EC
of the European Parliament and of the Council of
23 September 2002 concerning the distance marketing
(18) Unsecured credit agreements the purpose of which is the of consumer financial services ( 1 ) which requires that in
renovation of a residential immovable property involving distance sales a consumer be informed of the existence or
a total amount of credit above EUR 75 000 should fall absence of a right of withdrawal and provides for a right
under the scope of Directive 2008/48/EC in order to of withdrawal. However, while Directive 2002/65/EC
ensure an equivalent level of protection to those provides for the possibility for the supplier to
consumers and to avoid any regulatory gap between communicate pre-contractual information after the
that Directive and this Directive. Directive 2008/48/EC conclusion of the contract, this would be inappropriate
should therefore be amended accordingly. for contracts for credit agreements relating to residential
immovable property given the significance of the
financial commitment for the consumer. This Directive
should not affect national general contract law such as
the rules on the validity, formation or effect of a
contract, insofar as general contract law aspects are not
(19) For reasons of legal certainty, the Union legal framework
in the area of credit agreements relating to residential
regulated in this Directive.
immovable property should be consistent with and
complementary to other Union acts, particularly in the
areas of consumer protection and prudential supervision.
Certain essential definitions including the definition of
(22) At the same time, it is important to take into
‘consumer’, and ‘durable medium’, as well as key
consideration the specificities of credit agreements
concepts used in standard information to designate the
relating to residential immovable property, which justify
financial characteristics of the credit, including ‘total
a differentiated approach. Given the nature and the
amount payable by the consumer’ and ‘borrowing rate’
possible consequences of a credit agreement relating to
should be in line with those set out in Directive
residential immovable property for the consumer, adver­
2008/48/EC so that the same terminology refers to the
tising materials and personalised pre-contractual
same type of facts irrespective of whether the credit is a
information should include adequate specific risk
consumer credit or a credit relating to residential
warnings, for instance about the potential impact of
immovable property. Member States should therefore
exchange rate fluctuations on what the consumer has
ensure, in the transposition of this Directive, that there
to repay and, where assessed as appropriate by the
is consistency of application and interpretation in
Member States, the nature and implications of taking
relation to those essential definitions and key concepts.
out a security. Following what already existed as a
voluntary approach by the industry concerning home
loans, general pre-contractual information should be
made available at all times in addition to the personalised
pre-contractual information. Furthermore, a differentiated
(20) In order to ensure a consistent framework for consumers approach is justified in order to take into consideration
in the area of credit as well as to minimise the adminis­ the lessons learnt from the financial crisis and in order to
trative burden for creditors and credit intermediaries, the ensure that credit origination takes place in a sound
core framework of this Directive should follow the manner. In this respect, the provisions on the creditwor­
structure of Directive 2008/48/EC where possible, thiness assessment should be strengthened in comparison
notably the notions that information included in adver­ to consumer credit, more precise information should be
tising concerning credit agreements relating to residential provided by credit intermediaries on their status and
immovable property be provided to the consumer by relationship with the creditors in order to disclose
means of a representative example, that detailed pre- potential conflicts of interest, and all actors involved in
contractual information be given to the consumer by the origination of credit agreements relating to
means of a standardised information sheet, that the immovable property should be adequately admitted and
consumer receives adequate explanations before supervised.
concluding the credit agreement, a common basis be
established for calculating the APRC excluding notary ( 1 ) OJ L 271, 9.10.2002, p. 16.
L 60/38 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(23) It is necessary to regulate some additional areas in order an investment product or a private pension product
to reflect the specificity of credits related to residential serves as an additional security for the credit. While it
immovable property. Given the significance of the trans­ is justified for creditors to be able to require the
action it is necessary to ensure that consumers have consumer to have a relevant insurance policy in order
sufficient time of at least seven days to consider the to guarantee repayment of the credit or insure the value
implications. Member States should have flexibility to of the security, the consumer should have the oppor­
provide this sufficient time either as a period of reflection tunity to choose his own insurance provider, provided
before the credit agreement is concluded, a period of that his insurance policy has an equivalent level of
withdrawal after the conclusion of the credit agreement guarantee as the insurance policy proposed or offered
or a combination of the two. It is appropriate that by the creditor. Moreover Member States may stan­
Member States should have the flexibility to make the dardise, wholly or in part, the cover provided by
reflection period binding on the consumer for a period insurance contracts in order to facilitate comparisons
not exceeding 10 days but that in other cases consumers between different offers for consumers who wish to
who wish to proceed during the reflection period are able make such comparisons.
to do so and that, in the interests of legal certainty in the
context of property transactions, Member States should
be able to provide that the reflection period or right of
withdrawal should cease where the consumer undertakes
(26) It is important to ensure that the residential immovable
any action which, under national law, results in the
property is appropriately valued before the conclusion of
creation or transfer of a property right connected to or
the credit agreement and, in particular where the
using funds obtained through the credit agreement or,
valuation affects the residual obligation of the
where applicable, transfers the funds to a third party.
consumer in the event of default. Member States
should therefore ensure that reliable valuation standards
are in place. In order to be considered reliable, valuation
standards should take into account internationally
recognised valuation standards, in particular those
(24) Given the particular characteristics of credit agreements
developed by the International Valuation Standards
related to residential immovable property it is common
Committee, the European Group of Valuers’ Associations
practice for creditors to offer to consumers a set of
or the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Those
products or services which can be purchased together
internationally recognised valuation standards contain
with the credit agreement. Therefore, given the
high level principles which require creditors, amongst
significance of such agreements for consumers, it is
others, to adopt and adhere to adequate internal risk
appropriate to lay down specific rules on tying practices.
management and securities management processes,
Combining a credit agreement with one or more other
which include sound appraisal processes, to adopt
financial services or products in packages is a means for
appraisal standards and methods that lead to realistic
creditors to diversify their offer and to compete against
and substantiated property appraisals in order to ensure
each other, provided that the components of the package
that all appraisal reports are prepared with appropriate
can also be bought separately. While a combination of
professional skill and diligence and that appraisers meet
credit agreements with one or more other financial
certain qualification requirements and to maintain
services or products in packages can benefit consumers,
adequate appraisal documentation for securities that is
it may negatively affect consumers’ mobility and their
comprehensive and plausible. In this regard it is
ability to make informed choices, unless the components
desirable to ensure appropriate monitoring of residential
of the package can be bought separately. It is important
immovable property markets and for the mechanisms in
to prevent practices such as tying of certain products
such provisions to be in line with Directive 2013/36/EU
which may induce consumers to enter into credit
of the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June
agreements which are not in their best interest, without
2013 on access to the activity of credit institutions and
however restricting product bundling which can be
the prudential supervision of credit institutions and
beneficial to consumers. Member States should however
investment firms ( 1 ). The provisions of this Directive
continue monitoring retail financial services markets
relating to property valuation standards can be
closely to ensure that bundling practices do not distort
complied with for example through law or self-regu­
consumer choice and competition in the market.
lation.
(25) As a general rule, tying practices should not be allowed (27) Given the significant consequences for creditors,
unless the financial service or product offered together consumers and potentially financial stability of fore­
with the credit agreement could not be offered separately closure, it is appropriate to encourage creditors to deal
as it is a fully integrated part of the credit, for example in proactively with emerging credit risk at an early stage
the event of a secured overdraft. In other instances, it and that the necessary measures are in place to ensure
may however be justified for creditors to offer or sell a that creditors exercise reasonable forbearance and make
credit agreement in a package with a payment account, reasonable attempts to resolve the situation through
savings account, investment product or pension product, other means before foreclosure proceedings are initiated.
for instance where the capital in the account is used to Where possible, solutions should be found which take
repay the credit or is a prerequisite for pooling resources
to obtain the credit, or in situations where, for instance, ( 1 ) OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 338.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/39
account of the practical circumstances and reasonable to ensure that consumers are aware of the risk they are
need for living expenses of the consumer. Where after taking on and that the consumer has the possibility to
foreclosure proceedings outstanding debt remains, limit their exposure to exchange rate risk during the
Member States should ensure the protection of lifetime of the credit. The risk could be limited either
minimum living conditions and put in place measures through giving the consumer the right to convert the
to facilitate repayment while avoiding long-term over- currency of the credit, or through other arrangements
indebtedness. At least where the price obtained for the such as caps or, where they are sufficient to limit the
immovable property affects the amount owed by the exchange rate risk, warnings.
consumer, Member States should encourage creditors to
take reasonable steps to obtain the best efforts price for
the foreclosed immovable property in the context of
market conditions. Member States should not prevent
the parties to a credit agreement from expressly
agreeing that the transfer of the security to the creditor (31) The applicable legal framework should give consumers
is sufficient to repay the credit. the confidence that creditors, credit intermediaries and
appointed representatives take account of the interests
of the consumer, based on the information available to
the creditor, credit intermediary and appointed represen­
tative at that moment in time and on reasonable
(28) Intermediaries often engage in more activities than just assumptions about risks to the consumer’s situation
credit intermediation, in particular insurance inter­ over the term of the proposed credit agreement. It
mediation or investment services provision. This could imply, amongst other things, that creditors
Directive should therefore also ensure a degree of should not market the credit so that the marketing
coherence with Directive 2002/92/EC of the European significantly impairs or is likely to impair the consumer’s
Parliament and of the Council of 9 December 2002 on ability to carefully consider the taking of the credit, or
insurance mediation ( 1 ) and Directive 2004/39/EC of the that the creditor should not use the granting of the credit
European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April as a main method of marketing when marketing goods,
2004 on markets in financial instruments ( 2) . In services or immovable property to consumers. A key
particular, credit institutions authorised in accordance aspect of ensuring such consumer confidence is the
with Directive 2013/36/EU and other financial insti­ requirement to ensure a high degree of fairness,
tutions subject to an equivalent admission regime honesty and professionalism in the industry, appropriate
under national law should not require a separate management of conflicts of interest including those
admission to operate as a credit intermediary in order arising from remuneration and to require advice to be
to simplify the process of establishing as a credit inter­ given in the best interests of the consumer.
mediary and operating cross-border. The full and uncon­
ditional responsibility placed on creditors and credit
intermediaries for the activities of tied credit inter­
mediaries or appointed representatives should only
extend to activities within the scope of this Directive
unless Member States choose to extend that responsi­
(32) It is appropriate to ensure that the relevant staff of
bility to other areas.
creditors, credit intermediaries and appointed represen­
tatives possess an adequate level of knowledge and
competence in order to achieve a high level of professio­
nalism. This Directive should, therefore, require relevant
knowledge and competence to be proven at the level of
(29) In order to increase the ability of consumers to make the company, based on the minimum knowledge and
informed decisions for themselves about borrowing and competence requirements set out in this Directive.
managing debt responsibly, Member States should Member States should be free to introduce or maintain
promote measures to support the education of such requirements applicable to individual natural
consumers in relation to responsible borrowing and persons. Member States should be able to allow creditors,
debt management in particular relating to mortgage credit intermediaries and appointed representatives to
credit agreements. It is particularly important to differentiate between the levels of minimum knowledge
provide guidance for consumers taking out mortgage requirements according to the involvement in carrying
credit for the first time. In that regard, the Commission out particular services or processes. In this context,
should identify examples of best practices to facilitate the staff includes outsourced personnel, working for and
further development of measures to enhance consumers’ within the creditor, credit intermediary or appointed
financial awareness. representatives as well as their employees. For the
purpose of this Directive, staff directly engaged in
activities under this Directive should include both
front- and back-office staff, including management,
who fulfil an important role in the credit agreement
(30) Due to the significant risks attached to borrowing in a process. Persons fulfilling support functions which are
foreign currency, it is necessary to provide for measures unrelated to the credit agreement process (for instance
human resources and information and communications
( 1 ) OJ L 9, 15.1.2003, p. 3. technology personnel) should not be considered as staff
( 2 ) OJ L 145, 30.4.2004, p. 1. under this Directive.
L 60/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(33) Where a creditor or credit intermediary provides its the compensation measures that a host Member State
services within the territory of another Member State may require from an individual whose qualification has
under the freedom to provide services, the home not been issued within its jurisdiction.
Member State should be responsible for establishing the
minimum knowledge and competence requirements
applicable to the staff. However host Member States
which deem it necessary should be able to establish (37) Creditors and credit intermediaries frequently use adver­
their own competence requirements in certain specified tisements, often featuring special terms and conditions,
areas applicable to creditors and credit intermediaries that to attract consumers to a particular product. Consumers
provide services within the territory of that Member State should, therefore, be protected against unfair or
under the freedom to provide services. misleading advertising practices and should be able to
compare advertisements. Specific provisions on the
advertising of credit agreements and a list of items to
be included in advertisements and marketing materials
directed at consumers where such advertising specifies
(34) Given the importance of ensuring that knowledge and interest rates or any figures relating to the cost of
competence requirements are applied and complied
credit, are necessary to enable them to compare
with in practice, Member States should require
different offers. Member States should remain free to
competent authorities to supervise creditors, credit inter­
introduce or maintain disclosure requirements in their
mediaries and appointed representatives and empower
national laws regarding advertising which does not
them to obtain such evidence as they need to reliably
indicate an interest rate or contain any figures relating
assess compliance.
to the cost of credit. Any such requirements should take
into account the specificities of credit agreements relating
to residential immovable property. In any event, it should
be ensured in accordance with Directive 2005/29/EC of
the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May
(35) The way in which creditors, credit intermediaries and
2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer
appointed representatives remunerate their staff should
constitute one of the key aspects of ensuring consumer
commercial practices in the internal market ( 2 ) that
advertising of credit agreements should not create a
confidence in the financial sector. This Directive provides
misleading impression of the product.
rules for staff remuneration, with the aim of limiting mis-
selling practices and of ensuring that the way in which
staff are remunerated does not impede compliance with
the obligation to take account of the interests of the
(38) Advertising tends to focus on one or several products in
consumer. In particular, creditors, credit intermediaries
particular, while consumers should be able to make their
and appointed representatives should not design their
decisions in full knowledge of the range of credit
remuneration policies in a way that would incentivise
products on offer. In that respect, general information
their staff to conclude a given number or type of
plays an important role in educating the consumer in
credit agreements or to offer particular ancillary
relation to the broad range of products and services
services to consumers with no explicit consideration of
available and the key features thereof. Consumers
their interests and needs. In this context, Member States
should therefore be able at all times to access general
may find it necessary to decide that a particular practice,
information on credit products available. Where this
for example, tied intermediaries collecting fees, is against
requirement is not applicable to non-tied credit inter­
the interests of a consumer. Member States should also
mediaries, this should be without prejudice to their
be able to specify that the remuneration received by staff
obligation to provide consumers with personalised pre-
is not dependent on the rate or the type of credit
contractual information.
agreement concluded with the consumer.
(39) In order to ensure a level playing field and in order for
(36) This Directive provides for harmonised rules as regards the consumer’s decision to be based on the details of the
the fields of knowledge and competence that creditors’, credit products on offer rather than on the distribution
credit intermediaries’ and appointed representatives’ staff channel through which such credit products are accessed,
should possess in relation to the manufacturing, offering, consumers should receive information on the credit
granting and intermediation of a credit agreement. This regardless of whether they are dealing directly with a
Directive does not provide for specific arrangements creditor or a credit intermediary.
directly related to the recognition of professional qualifi­
cations obtained by an individual in one Member State in
order to meet the knowledge and competence
requirements in another Member State. Directive (40) Consumers should further receive personalised
2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the information in good time prior to the conclusion of
Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of the credit agreement in order to enable them to
professional qualifications ( 1 ) should therefore continue compare and reflect on the characteristics of credit
to apply concerning the conditions for recognition and products. Pursuant to Commission Recommendation
( 1 ) OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22. ( 2 ) OJ L 149, 11.6.2005, p. 22.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/41
2001/193/EC of 1 March 2001 on pre-contractual (43) In order to ensure that the ESIS provides the consumer
information to be given to consumers by lenders with all relevant information to make an informed
offering home loans ( 1 ), the Commission committed choice, the creditor should follow the instructions set
itself to monitoring compliance with the Voluntary out in this Directive when completing the ESIS.
Code of Conduct on pre-contractual information for Member States should be able to elaborate or further
home loans, which contains the ESIS which provides specify the instructions for completing the ESIS on the
information, personalised for the consumer, on the basis of the instructions set out in this Directive. For
credit agreement being provided. Evidence collected by instance, Member States should be able to further
the Commission highlighted the need to revise the specify the information to be given in order to describe
content and presentation of the ESIS to ensure that it the ‘type of borrowing rate’ in order to take into account
is clear, understandable and contains all information the specificities of the national products and market.
found to be relevant for consumers. The content and However, such further specifications should not be
layout of the ESIS should incorporate the necessary contrary to the instructions contained in this Directive
improvements identified during consumer testing in all nor imply any change in the text of the ESIS model,
Member States. The structure of the ESIS, in particular, which should be reproduced as such by the creditor.
the order of the information items, should be revised, the Member States should be able to specify further
wording should be more user-friendly, while sections, warnings on credit agreements, adapted to their
such as ‘nominal rate’ and ‘annual percentage rate of national market and practices, where such warnings are
charge’, should be merged and new sections, such as not already specifically included in the ESIS. Member
‘flexible features’, should be added. An illustrative amor­ States should be able to provide that the creditor is
tisation table should be provided to a consumer as part bound by the information provided for in the ESIS,
of the ESIS where the credit is a deferred interest credit, provided that the creditor decides to grant the credit.
in which the repayment of principal is deferred for an
initial period or where the borrowing rate is fixed for the
duration of the credit agreement. Member States should
be able to provide that such an illustrative amortisation
table in the ESIS is not compulsory for other credit
agreements. (44) The consumer should receive information by means of
the ESIS without undue delay after the consumer has
delivered the necessary information on his needs,
financial situation and preferences and in good time
before the consumer is bound by any credit agreement
or offer, in order to enable him to compare and reflect
(41) Consumer research has underlined the importance of on the characteristics of credit products and obtain third
using simple and understandable language in disclosures party advice if necessary. In particular when a binding
provided to consumers. For this reason, the terms used in offer is made to the consumer, it should be accompanied
the ESIS are not necessarily the same as the legal terms by the ESIS, unless the ESIS has already been delivered to
defined in this Directive but have the same meaning. the consumer and the characteristics of the offer are
consistent with the information previously provided.
However, Member States should be able to provide for
the obligatory provision of the ESIS both before the
provision of any binding offer and together with the
binding offer, where an ESIS containing the same
(42) The information requirements on credit agreements
information has not previously been given. While the
contained in the ESIS should be without prejudice to
ESIS should be personalised and reflect the preferences
Union or national information requirements for other
expressed by the consumer, the provision of such
products or services that might be offered with the
personalised information should not imply an obligation
credit agreement, as conditions for obtaining the credit
to provide advice. Credit agreements should only be
agreement related to immovable property, or offered so
concluded where the consumer has had sufficient time
as to obtain that agreement at a lower borrowing rate,
to compare offers, assess their implications, obtain third
such as fire or life insurance or investment products.
party advice if necessary and has taken an informed
Member States should be free to maintain or introduce
decision on whether to accept an offer.
national law where no harmonised provisions exist, for
instance information requirements on the level of usury
rates at the pre-contractual stage or information which
might be useful for the purposes of financial education
or for out-of-court settlements. Any additional
information should, however, be given in a separate (45) Where the consumer has a secured credit agreement for
document which may be annexed to the ESIS. Member the purchase of immovable property or land and the
States should be able, in their national languages, to use duration of the security is longer than that of the
different vocabulary in the ESIS, without changing its credit agreement, and where the consumer can decide
contents and the order in which information is to withdraw the repaid capital again subject to
provided, when this is needed in order to employ a signature of a new credit agreement, a new ESIS
language which might be more easily understandable disclosing the new APRC and based on the specific char­
for consumers. acteristics of the new credit agreement should be
provided to the consumer before the signature of the
( 1 ) OJ L 69, 10.3.2001, p. 25. new credit agreement.
L 60/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(46) At least where no right of withdrawal exists, the creditor necessary to uniformly ensure the comparability of
or, where applicable, the credit intermediary or appointed information relating to the APRC throughout the Union.
representative should provide the consumer with a copy
of the draft credit agreement, at the time of the provision
of an offer binding on the creditor. In other cases, the
consumer should at least be offered a copy of the draft
(50) The total cost of the credit to the consumer should
credit agreement at the time a binding offer is made.
comprise all the costs that the consumer has to pay in
connection with the credit agreement and which are
known to the creditor. It should therefore include
interest, commissions, taxes, fees for credit intermedi­
aries, the costs of property valuation for a mortgage
(47) In order to ensure the fullest possible transparency and
and any other fees, except for notarial fees, required to
to prevent abuses arising from possible conflicts of
obtain the credit, for example life insurance, or to obtain
interest when consumers use the services of credit inter­
it on the terms and conditions marketed, for example fire
mediaries, the latter should be subject to certain
insurance. The provisions of this Directive concerning
information disclosure obligations prior to the
ancillary products and services (for instance concerning
performance of their services. Such disclosures should
the costs of opening and maintaining a bank account)
include information on their identity and links with
should be without prejudice to Directive 2005/29/EC and
creditors, for instance whether they are considering
Council Directive 93/13/EEC of 5 April 1993 on unfair
products from a broad range of creditors or only from
a more limited number of creditors. The existence of any
terms in consumer contracts ( 1 ). The total cost of the
credit to the consumer should exclude costs that the
commission or other inducement payable to the credit
consumer pays in relation to the purchase of the
intermediary by the creditor or by third parties in
immovable property or land, such as associated taxes
relation to the credit agreement should be disclosed to
and notarial costs or the costs of land registration. The
consumers before the carrying out of any credit inter­
creditor’s actual knowledge of the costs should be
mediation activities and consumers should be informed
assessed objectively, taking into account the requirements
at that stage either of the amount of such payments,
of professional diligence. In that respect, the creditor
where that is known, or of the fact that the amount
should be presumed to have knowledge of the costs of
will be disclosed at a later pre-contractual stage in the
the ancillary services which he offers to the consumer
ESIS and of their right to be given information on the
himself, or on behalf of a third party, unless the price
level of such payments at that stage. Consumers should
thereof depends on the specific characteristics or
be informed of any fees they should pay to credit inter­
situation of the consumer.
mediaries in relation to their services. Without prejudice
to competition law, Member States should be free to
introduce or maintain provisions prohibiting the
payment of fees by consumers to some or all categories
of credit intermediary. (51) If estimated information is used, the consumer should be
made aware of this and that the information is expected
to be representative of the type of agreement or practices
under consideration. The additional assumptions for the
calculation of the APRC aim to ensure that the APRC is
(48) A consumer may still need additional assistance in order calculated in a consistent way and to ensure compara­
to decide which credit agreement, within the range of bility. Additional assumptions are necessary for specific
products proposed, is the most appropriate for his types of credit agreement, such as where the amount,
needs and financial situation. Creditors and, where appli­ duration or cost of the credit are uncertain or vary
cable, credit intermediaries should provide such depending on how the agreement is operated. Where
assistance in relation to the credit products which they the provisions in themselves do not suffice to calculate
offer to the consumer by explaining the relevant the APRC, the creditor should use the additional
information including in particular the essential char­ assumptions set out in Annex I. However, given that
acteristics of the products proposed to the consumer in the calculation of the APRC will depend on the terms
a personalised manner so that the consumer can of the individual credit agreement, only those
understand the effects which they may have on his assumptions necessary and relevant to a given credit
economic situation. Creditors and, where applicable, should be used.
credit intermediaries should adapt the way in which
such explanations are given to the circumstances in
which the credit is offered and the consumer’s need for
assistance, taking into account the consumer’s knowledge
(52) In order to further ensure a high degree of comparability
and experience of credit and the nature of individual
of the APRC between offers from different creditors, the
credit products. Such explanations should not in itself
intervals between dates used in the calculation should not
constitute a personal recommendation.
be expressed in days where they can be expressed as a
whole number of years, months or weeks. Implicit in
that context is that if certain time intervals are used in
the APRC formula, those intervals should be used to
(49) In order to promote the establishment and functioning of ascertain the amounts of interest and other charges
the internal market and to ensure a high degree of
protection for consumers throughout the Union, it is ( 1 ) OJ L 95, 21.4.1993, p. 29.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/43
used in the formula. For this reason, creditors should use should be based on reasonable expectations of the
the method of measurement of time intervals described drawdown mechanism most frequently used by
in Annex I to obtain the figures for the payment of consumers for the type of product offered by that
charges. However, that is only applicable for the specific creditor. For existing products, the expectation
purposes of calculation of the APRC and does not should be based on the previous 12 months.
impact on the amounts actually charged by the creditor
under the credit agreement. Where those numbers are
different it may be necessary to explain them to the
consumer in order to avoid misleading the consumer. (55) It is essential that the consumer’s ability and propensity
That implies that in the absence of non-interest charges to repay the credit is assessed and verified before a credit
and assuming an identical method of calculation the agreement is concluded. That assessment of creditwor­
APRC will be equal to the effective borrowing rate of thiness should take into consideration all necessary and
the credit. relevant factors that could influence a consumer’s ability
to repay the credit over its lifetime. In particular, the
consumer’s ability to service and fully repay the credit
should include consideration of future payments or
payment increases needed due to negative amortisation
(53) As the APRC can at the advertising stage be indicated
or deferred payments of principal or interest and should
only through an example, such an example should be
be considered in the light of other regular expenditure,
representative. Therefore, it should correspond, for
debts and other financial commitments as well as
instance, to the average duration and total amount of
income, savings and assets. Reasonable allowance
credit granted for the type of credit agreement under
should be made for future events during the term of
consideration. When determining the representative
the proposed credit agreement such as a reduction in
example, the prevalence of certain types of credit
income where the credit term lasts into retirement or,
agreements in a specific market should be taken into
where applicable, an increase in the borrowing rate or
account. It may be preferable for each creditor to base
negative change in the exchange rate. While the value of
the representative example on an amount of credit which
the immovable property is an important element in
is representative of that creditor’s own product range and
ascertaining the amount of the credit that may be
expected customer base, as these may vary considerably
granted to a consumer under a secured credit agreement,
among creditors. As regards the APRC disclosed in the
the assessment of creditworthiness should focus on the
ESIS, the preferences of and information provided by the
consumer’s ability to meet their obligations under the
consumer should where possible be taken into account
credit agreement. Consequently, the possibility that the
and the creditor or credit intermediary should make it
value of the immovable property could exceed the credit
clear whether the information provided is illustrative or
amount or could increase in the future should not
reflects the preferences and information given. In any
generally be a sufficient condition for granting the
event, the representative examples should not be
credit in question. Nevertheless, where the purpose of a
contrary to the requirements of Directive 2005/29/EC.
credit agreement is to construct or renovate an existing
It is important that in the ESIS it is made clear to the
immovable property, the creditor should be able to
consumer, where applicable, that the APRC is based on
consider this possibility. Member States should be able
assumptions and could change so that consumers can
to issue additional guidance on those or additional
take this into account when comparing products. It is
criteria and on methods to assess a consumer’s credi­
important that the APRC should take account of all
tworthiness, for example by setting limits on loan-to-
drawdowns under the credit agreement, whether paid
value or loan-to-income ratios and should be encouraged
directly to the consumer or to a third party on the
to implement the Financial Stability Board’s Principles for
consumer’s behalf.
Sound Residential Mortgage Underwriting Practices.
(54) In order to ensure consistency between the calculation of (56) Specific provisions may be necessary for the different
the APRC for different types of credit, the assumptions elements that may be taken into consideration in the
used for calculating similar forms of credit agreement creditworthiness assessment of certain types of credit
should be generally consistent. In this respect, agreements. For example, for credit agreements which
assumptions from Commission Directive 2011/90/EU relate to an immovable property which explicitly state
of 14 November 2011 amending Part II of Annex I to that the immovable property is not to be occupied as
Directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament and of a house, apartment or another place of residence by the
the Council providing additional assumptions for the consumer or a family member of the consumer (buy-to-
calculation of the annual percentage rate of charge ( 1) , let agreements), Member States should be able to specify
modifying the assumptions for calculating the APRC that future rental income is taken into account when
should be incorporated. While not all assumptions will assessing the consumer’s ability to repay the credit. In
necessarily apply to credit agreements available now, those Member States where such a specification is not set
product innovation in this sector is active and so it is out by national provisions, creditors may decide to
necessary to have the assumptions in place. Furthermore, include a prudent assessment of future rental income.
for the purpose of calculating the APRC, the identifi­ The assessment of creditworthiness should not imply
cation of the most common drawdown mechanism the transfer of responsibility to the creditor for any
subsequent non-compliance by the consumer with his
( 1 ) OJ L 296, 15.11.2011, p. 35. obligations under the credit agreement.
L 60/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(57) The creditor’s decision as to whether to grant the credit relevant database. Creditors should be able to consult
should be consistent with the outcome of the assessment the credit database over the lifetime of the credit solely
of creditworthiness. For example, the capacity for the in order to identify and assess the potential for default.
creditor to transfer part of the credit risk to a third Such consultation of the credit database should be
party should not lead him to ignore the conclusions of subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that it is
the creditworthiness assessment by making a credit used for the early identification and resolution of credit
agreement available to a consumer who is likely not to risk in the interest of the consumer and not to inform
be able to repay it. Member States should be able to commercial negotiations. Pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC
transpose this principle by requiring competent auth­ of the European Parliament and of the Council of
orities to take relevant actions as part of the supervisory 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with
activities and to monitor the compliance of creditors’ regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
creditworthiness assessment procedures. However, a movement of such data ( 1) , consumers should be
positive creditworthiness assessment should not informed by creditors of the consultation of the credit
constitute an obligation for the creditor to provide credit. database prior to its consultation, and should have the
right to access the information held on them in such a
credit database in order to, where necessary, rectify, erase
or block the personal data concerning them processed
therein where it is inaccurate or has been unlawfully
processed.
(58) In line with the recommendations of the Financial
Stability Board, the assessment of creditworthiness
should be based on information on the financial and
economic situation, including income and expenses, of
the consumer. That information can be obtained from
(60) To prevent any distortion of competition among
various sources including from the consumer, and the
creditors, it should be ensured that all creditors,
creditor should appropriately verify such information
including credit institutions or non-credit institutions
before granting the credit. In that respect consumers
providing credit agreements relating to residential
should provide information in order to facilitate the
immovable property, have access to all public and
creditworthiness assessment, since failure to do so is
private credit databases concerning consumers under
likely to result in refusal of the credit they seek to
non-discriminatory conditions. Such conditions should
obtain unless the information can be obtained from else­
not therefore include a requirement for creditors to be
where. Without prejudice to private contract law,
established as a credit institution. Access conditions, such
Member States should ensure that creditors cannot
as the costs of accessing the database or requirements to
terminate a credit agreement because they realised, after
provide information to the database on the basis of reci­
the signature of the credit agreement, that the assessment
procity should continue to apply. Member States should
of creditworthiness was incorrectly conducted due to
be free to determine whether, within their jurisdictions,
incomplete information at the time of the creditwor­
credit intermediaries may have access to such databases.
thiness assessment. However, this should be without
prejudice to the possibility for Member States to allow
creditors to terminate the credit agreement where it can
be established that the consumer deliberately provided
inaccurate or falsified information at the time of the
(61) Where a decision to reject an application for credit is
creditworthiness assessment or intentionally did not
based on data obtained through the consultation of a
provide information that would have led to a negative
database or the lack of data therein, the creditor should
creditworthiness assessment or where there are other
inform the consumer thereof, and provide the name of
valid reasons compatible with Union law. While it
the database consulted and of any other elements
would not be appropriate to apply sanctions to
required by Directive 95/46/EC so as to enable the
consumers for not being in a position to provide
consumer to exercise his right to access and, where
certain information or assessments or for deciding to
justified, rectify, erase or block personal data concerning
discontinue the application process for getting a credit,
him and processed therein. Where a decision to reject an
Member States should be able to provide for sanctions
application for credit results from a negative creditwor­
where consumers knowingly provide incomplete or
thiness assessment, the creditor should inform the
incorrect information in order to obtain a positive credi­
consumer of the rejection without undue delay.
tworthiness assessment, in particular where the complete
Member States should be free to decide whether they
and correct information would have resulted in a
require creditors to provide further explanations on the
negative creditworthiness assessment and the consumer
reasons of the rejection. However, the creditor should not
is subsequently unable to fulfil the conditions of the
be required to give such information when to do so
agreement.
would be prohibited by other Union law such as
provisions on money laundering or the financing of
terrorism. Such information should not be provided
where to do so would be contrary to the objectives of
public policy or public security such as the prevention,
(59) Consultation of a credit database is a useful element in investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
the assessment of creditworthiness. Some Member States offences.
require creditors to assess the creditworthiness of
consumers on the basis of a consultation of the ( 1 ) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/45
(62) This Directive addresses the use of personal data in the role in promoting competition in the internal market and
context of the assessment of a consumer’s creditwor­ the free movement of Union citizens as well as helping
thiness. In order to ensure the protection of personal to provide the flexibility during the lifetime of the credit
data, Directive 95/46/EC should apply to the data agreement needed to promote financial stability in line
processing activities carried out within the context of with the recommendations of the Financial Stability
such assessments. Board. However, substantial differences exist between
the national principles and conditions under which
consumers have the ability to repay their credit and the
conditions under which such early repayment can take
place. Whilst recognising the diversity in mortgage
(63) Providing advice in the form of a personalised recom­
funding mechanisms and the range of products available,
mendation is a distinct activity which may but need not
certain standards with regard to early repayment of credit
be combined with other aspects of granting or inter­
are essential at Union level in order to ensure that
mediating credit. Therefore, in order to be in a position
consumers have the possibility to discharge their
to understand the nature of the services provided to
obligations before the date agreed in the credit
them, consumers should be made aware of whether
agreement and the confidence to compare offers in
advisory services are being or can be provided and
order to find the best products to meet their needs.
when they are not and of what constitutes advisory
Member States should therefore ensure, whether
services. Given the importance which consumers attach
through law or other means such as contractual
to the use of the terms ‘advice’ and ‘advisors’, it is appro­
clauses, that consumers have a right to early repayment.
priate that Member States should be allowed to prohibit
Nevertheless, Member States should be able to define the
the use of the those terms, or similar terms, when
conditions for the exercise of such a right. These
advisory services are being provided to consumers. It is
conditions may include time limitations on the exercise
appropriate to ensure that Member States impose safe­
of the right, different treatment depending on the type of
guards where advice is described as independent to
the borrowing rate or restrictions with regard to the
ensure that the range of products considered and remun­
circumstances under which the right may be exercised.
eration arrangements are commensurate with consumers’
Where the early repayment falls within a period for
expectations of such advice.
which the borrowing rate is fixed, exercise of the right
may be made subject to the existence of a legitimate
interest on the part of the consumer specified by the
Member State. Such legitimate interest may for example
(64) Those providing advisory services should comply with occur in the event of divorce or unemployment. The
certain standards in order to ensure that the consumer conditions set by Member States may provide that the
is presented with products suitable for his needs and creditor is entitled to fair and objectively justified
circumstances. Advisory services should be based on a compensation for potential costs directly linked to early
fair and sufficiently wide-ranging analysis of the products repayment of the credit. In the event where Member
offered, where the advisory services are provided by States provide that the creditor is entitled to compen­
creditors and tied credit intermediaries, or, where the sation such compensation should be a fair and objec­
advisory services are provided by credit intermediaries tively justified compensation for potential costs directly
that are not tied, of products available on the market. linked to early repayment of the credit in accordance
Those providing advisory services should be able to with the national rules on compensation. The compen­
specialise in certain ‘niche’ products such as bridging sation should not exceed the financial loss of the
finance, provided they consider a range of products creditor.
within that particular ‘niche’ and ‘their specialisation in
those ‘niche’ products is made clear to the consumer. In
any event, creditors and credit intermediaries should
disclose to the consumer whether they are advising
(67) It is important to ensure that sufficient transparency
only on their own product range or a wide range from
exists to provide clarity for consumers on the nature of
across the market to ensure that the consumer under­
the commitments made in the interests of preserving
stands the basis for a recommendation.
financial stability and on where there is flexibility
during the term of the credit agreement. Consumers
should be provided with information concerning the
borrowing rate during the contractual relationship as
(65) Advisory services should be based on a proper under­ well as at the pre-contractual stage. Member States
standing of the consumer’s financial situation, preferences should be able to maintain or introduce restrictions or
and objectives based on the necessary up-to-date prohibitions on unilateral changes to the borrowing rate
information and reasonable assumptions about risks to by the creditor. Member States should be able to provide
the consumer’s circumstances during the lifetime of the that where the borrowing rate changes the consumer is
credit agreement. Member States should be able to clarify entitled to receive an updated amortisation table.
how the suitability of a given product is to be assessed in
the context of the provision of advisory services.
(68) Although credit intermediaries play a central role in the
distribution of credit agreements relating to residential
(66) A consumer’s ability to repay the credit prior to the immovable property in the Union, substantial differences
expiry of the credit agreement may play an important remain between national provisions on the conduct of
L 60/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
business and supervision of credit intermediaries which (71) In order to ensure the effective supervision of credit
create barriers to the taking-up and pursuit of the intermediaries by competent authorities, a credit inter­
activities of credit intermediaries in the internal market. mediary which is a legal person should be admitted in
The inability of credit intermediaries to operate freely the Member State in which it has its registered office. A
throughout the Union hinders the proper functioning credit intermediary which is not a legal person should be
of the internal market in credit agreements relating to admitted in the Member State in which it has its head
residential immovable property. While recognising the office. In addition, Member States should require that a
diversity in the types of actor involved in credit inter­ credit intermediary’s head office always be situated in its
mediation, certain standards at Union level are essential home Member State and that it actually operates there.
in order to ensure a high level of professionalism and
service.
(72) The requirements for admission should allow credit inter­
(69) Before being able to carry out their activities, credit inter­ mediaries to operate in other Member States in
mediaries should be subject to an admission process by accordance with the principles of freedom of estab­
the competent authority of their home Member State and lishment and freedom to provide services, provided that
subject to ongoing supervision to ensure that they meet an appropriate notification procedure has been followed
strict professional requirements at least in relation to between the competent authorities. Even in cases where
their competence, good repute and professional Member States decide to admit all individual staff within
indemnity cover. Such requirements should apply at the credit intermediary, the notification of the intention
least at the level of the institution. However, Member to provide services should be made on the basis of the
States may clarify whether such requirements for credit intermediary rather than the individual employee.
admission apply to individual employees of the credit However, while this Directive provides a framework for
intermediary. The home Member State may provide for all admitted credit intermediaries, including credit inter­
additional requirements, for instance that the credit inter­ mediaries tied to only one creditor, to operate
mediary’s shareholders are of good repute or that a tied throughout the Union, this Directive does not provide
credit intermediary can only be tied to one creditor, such a framework for appointed representatives. In
where those are proportionate and compatible with such instances, appointed representatives wishing to
other Union law. Relevant information about admitted operate in another Member State would have to
credit intermediaries should be entered in a public comply with the requirements for the admission of
register. Tied credit intermediaries who work exclusively credit intermediaries set out in this Directive.
with one creditor under its full and unconditional
responsibility should have the possibility to be admitted
by the competent authority under the auspices of the
creditor on whose behalf they act. Member States
should have the right to maintain or to impose (73) In some Member States, credit intermediaries can carry
restrictions regarding the legal form of certain credit out their activities in respect of credit agreements offered
intermediaries, whether they are allowed to act by non-credit institutions and credit institutions. As a
exclusively as legal or natural persons. Member States principle, admitted credit intermediaries should be
should be free to decide whether all credit intermediaries allowed to operate in the entire territory of the Union.
are entered into one register or whether different registers However, the admission by the competent authorities of
are required depending on whether the credit inter­ the home Member States should not allow credit inter­
mediary is tied or acts as independent credit inter­ mediaries to provide their services in relation to credit
mediary. Furthermore Member States should be free to agreements offered by non-credit institutions to a
maintain or to impose restrictions on the possibility to consumer in a Member State where such non-credit insti­
charge any fees to consumers by the credit intermediaries tutions are not allowed to operate.
tied to one or more creditors.
(70) In some Member States, credit intermediaries may decide (74) Member States should be able to provide that persons
to use the services of appointed representatives to carrying out credit intermediation activities only on an
perform activities on their behalf. Member States incidental basis in the course of professional activity,
should have the possibility to apply the specific regime such as lawyers or notaries, are not subject to the
laid down by this Directive for appointed representatives. admission procedure set out in this Directive provided
However, Member States should be free not to introduce that such professional activity is regulated and the
such a regime or to allow other entities to perform a role relevant rules do not prohibit the carrying out, on an
which is comparable to that of appointed representatives, incidental basis, of credit intermediation activities. Such
provided that those entities are subject to the same an exemption from the admission procedure laid down
regime as credit intermediaries. The rules on appointed in this Directive should however mean that such persons
representatives set out in this Directive do not oblige cannot benefit from the passport regime provided in this
Member States to allow appointed representatives to Directive. Persons who merely introduce or refer a
operate in their jurisdiction unless such appointed repre­ consumer to a creditor or credit intermediary on an inci­
sentatives are considered credit intermediaries under this dental basis in the course of their professional activity,
Directive. for instance by indicating the existence of a particular
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/47
creditor or credit intermediary to the consumer or a type schemes that are responsible for handling disputes
of product with this particular creditor or credit inter­ between consumers and financial services providers.
mediary to the consumer without further advertising or
engaging in the presentation, offering, preparatory work
or conclusion of the credit agreement, should not be
regarded as credit intermediaries for the purposes of (78) In order to ensure consistent harmonisation and to take
this Directive. Neither should borrowers who merely account of developments in the markets for credit
transfer a credit agreement to a consumer through a agreements or in the evolution of credit products or in
process of subrogation without carrying out any other economic conditions, and in order to further specify
credit intermediation activity be regarded as credit inter­ certain requirements in this Directive, the power to
mediaries for the purposes of this Directive. adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU should
be delegated to the Commission in respect of amending
the standard wording or the instructions for completing
the ESIS and amending the remarks or update the
assumptions used to calculate the APRC. It is of
(75) In order to ensure a level playing field between creditors particular importance that the Commission carry out
and promote financial stability, and pending further
appropriate consultations during its preparatory work,
harmonisation, Member States should ensure that appro­
including at expert level. The Commission, when
priate measures are in place for the admission and super­
preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure
vision of non-credit institutions providing credit
a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of
agreements relating to residential immovable property.
relevant documents to the European Parliament and to
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, this
the Council.
Directive should not lay down detailed conditions for the
admission or supervision of creditors providing such
credit agreements and that are not credit institutions as
defined in Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European (79) In order to facilitate the ability of credit intermediaries to
Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013 on provide their services on a cross-border basis, for the
prudential requirements for credit institutions and purposes of cooperation, information exchange and
investment firms ( 1 ). The number of such institutions dispute resolution between competent authorities, the
operating in the Union at present is limited as is their competent authorities responsible for the admission of
market share and the number of Member States in which credit intermediaries should be those acting under the
they are active, particularly since the financial crisis. Nor auspices of the European Supervisory Authority
should the introduction of a ‘passport’ for such insti­ (European Banking Authority) (EBA), as set out in Regu­
tutions be provided for in this Directive for the same lation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament
reason. and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing
a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking
Authority) ( 2) or other national authorities provided that
they cooperate with the authorities acting under the
auspices of EBA in order to carry out their duties
(76) Member States should lay down rules on sanctions
applicable to infringements of the national provisions
under this Directive.
adopted pursuant to this Directive and ensure that they
are implemented. While the choice of sanctions remains
within the discretion of Member States, the sanctions
(80) Member States should designate competent authorities
provided for should be effective, proportionate and
empowered to ensure enforcement of this Directive and
dissuasive.
ensure that they are granted investigation and
enforcement powers and adequate resources necessary
for the performance of their duties. Competent auth­
orities could act for certain aspects of this Directive by
(77) Consumers should have access to out-of-court complaint application to courts competent to grant a legal decision,
and redress procedures for the settlement of disputes including, where appropriate, by appeal. This could
arising from the rights and obligations set out in this enable Member States, in particular where provisions of
Directive between creditors and consumers as well as this Directive were transposed into civil law, to leave the
between credit intermediaries and consumers. Member enforcement of these provisions to the abovementioned
States should ensure that participation in such alternative bodies and the courts. Member States should be able to
dispute resolution procedures is not optional for designate different competent authorities in order to
creditors and credit intermediaries. To ensure the enforce the wide ranging obligations laid down in this
smooth functioning of alternative dispute resolution Directive. For instance, for some provisions, Member
procedures in cases of cross-border activity, Member States could designate competent authorities responsible
States should require and encourage the bodies for the enforcement of consumer protection, while for
responsible for resolving out-of-court complaints and others, they could decide to designate prudential super­
redress to cooperate. In that context, Member States’ visors. The option to designate different competent auth­
out-of-court complaint and redress bodies should be orities should not affect the obligations for ongoing
encouraged to participate in FIN-NET, a financial supervision and cooperation between the competent
dispute resolution network of national out-of-court authorities, as provided for in this Directive.
( 1 ) OJ L 176, 27.6.2013, p. 1. ( 2 ) OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12.
L 60/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(81) The efficient functioning of this Directive will need to be of personal data by the Community institutions and
reviewed, as will progress on the establishment of an bodies and on the free movement of such data ( 3 ),
internal market with a high level of consumer protection
for credit agreements relating to residential immovable
property. The review should include, among other
HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE:
things, an assessment of compliance with and the
impact of this Directive, an assessment of whether the
scope of the Directive remains appropriate, an analysis of
CHAPTER 1
the provision of credit agreements by non-credit institu­
tions, an assessment of the need for further measures, SUBJECT MATTER, SCOPE, DEFINITIONS AND COMPETENT
including a passport for non-credit institutions and AUTHORITIES
examination of the necessity to introduce further rights
Article 1
and obligations with regard to the post-contractual stage
of credit agreements. Subject matter
This Directive lays down a common framework for certain
aspects of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions
of the Member States concerning agreements covering credit for
(82) Action by Member States alone is likely to result in
consumers secured by a mortgage or otherwise relating to resi­
different sets of rules, which may undermine or create
dential immovable property, including an obligation to carry
new obstacles to the functioning of the internal market.
out a creditworthiness assessment before granting a credit, as
Since the objective of this Directive, namely the creation
a basis for the development of effective underwriting standards
of an efficient and competitive internal market in credit
in relation to residential immovable property in the Member
agreements relating to residential immovable property
States, and for certain prudential and supervisory requirements,
whilst ensuring a high level of consumer protection,
including for the establishment and supervision of credit inter­
cannot be sufficiently achieved by Member States and
mediaries, appointed representatives and non-credit institutions.
can therefore, by reason of the effectiveness of the
action, be better achieved at Union level, the Union
may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle
of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on Article 2
European Union. In accordance with the principle of
Level of harmonisation
proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive
does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve 1. This Directive shall not preclude Member States from
that objective. maintaining or introducing more stringent provisions in order
to protect consumers, provided that such provisions are
consistent with their obligations under Union law.
(83) Member States may decide to transpose certain aspects
covered by this Directive in national law by prudential 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member States shall not
law, for example the creditworthiness assessment of the maintain or introduce in their national law provisions
consumer, while others are transposed by civil or diverging from those laid down in Article 14(2) and Annex II
criminal law, for example the obligations relating to Part A with regard to standard pre-contractual information
responsible borrowers. through a European Standardised Information Sheet (ESIS)
and Article 17(1) to (5), (7) and (8) and Annex I with regard
to a common, consistent Union standard for the calculation of
the annual percentage rate of charge (APRC).
(84) In accordance with the Joint Political Declaration of
Member States and the Commission on explanatory
documents of 28 September 2011 ( 1) , Member States
Article 3
have undertaken to accompany, in justified cases, the
notification of their transposition measures with one or Scope
more documents explaining the relationship between the
1. This Directive shall apply to:
components of a directive and the corresponding parts of
national transposition instruments. With regard to this
Directive, the legislator considers the transmission of
such documents to be justified. (a) credit agreements which are secured either by a mortgage or
by another comparable security commonly used in a
Member State on residential immovable property or
secured by a right related to residential immovable
property; and
(85) The European Data Protection Supervisor delivered an
opinion on 25 July 2011 ( 2 ) based on Article 28(2) of
Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the (b) credit agreements the purpose of which is to acquire or
protection of individuals with regard to the processing retain property rights in land or in an existing or
projected building.
( 1 ) OJ C 369, 17.12.2011, p. 14.
( 2 ) OJ C 377, 23.12.2011, p. 5. ( 3 ) OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/49
2. This Directive shall not apply to: that the immovable property cannot at any time be
occupied as a house, apartment or another place of
residence by the consumer or a family member of the
consumer and is to be occupied as a house, apartment or
(a) Equity release credit agreements where the creditor:
another place of residence on the basis of a rental
agreement;
(i) contributes a lump sum, periodic payments or other
forms of credit disbursement in return for a sum
(c) this Directive to credit agreements which relate to credits
deriving from the future sale of a residential
granted to a restricted public under a statutory provision
immovable property or a right relating to residential
with a general interest purpose, free of interest or at lower
immovable property; and
borrowing rates than those prevailing on the market or on
other terms which are more favourable to the consumer
than those prevailing on the market and at borrowing
(ii) will not seek repayment of the credit until the rates not higher than those prevailing on the market;
occurrence of one or more specified life events of the
consumer, as defined by Member States, unless the
consumer breaches his contractual obligations which
(d) this Directive to bridging loans;
allows the creditor to terminate the credit agreement;
(e) this Directive to credit agreements where the creditor is an
(b) credit agreements where the credit is granted by an
organisation within the scope of Article 2(5) of Directive
employer to his employees as a secondary activity where
2008/48/EC.
such a credit agreement is offered free of interest or at an
APRC lower than those prevailing on the market and not
offered to the public generally;
4. Member States which use the option referred to in
point (b) of paragraph 3 shall ensure the application of an
appropriate framework at a national level for this type of credit.
(c) credit agreements where the credit is granted free of interest
and without any other charges except those that recover
costs directly related to the securing of the credit;
5. Member States which use the option referred to in
point (c) or (e) of paragraph 3 shall ensure the application of
adequate alternative arrangements to ensure consumers receive
(d) credit agreements in the form of an overdraft facility and timely information on the main features, risks and costs of such
where the credit has to be repaid within one month; credit agreements at the pre-contractual stage and that adver­
tising of such credit agreements is fair, clear and not misleading.
(e) credit agreements which are the outcome of a settlement
reached in court or before another statutory authority; Article 4
Definitions
(f) credit agreements which relate to the deferred payment, free For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall
of charge, of an existing debt and which do not fall within apply:
the scope of point (a) of paragraph 1.
(1) ‘Consumer’ means a consumer as defined in point (a) of
Article 3 of Directive 2008/48/EC.
3. Member States may decide not to apply:
(2) ‘Creditor’ means a natural or legal person who grants or
(a) Articles 11 and 14 and Annex II to credit agreements for
promises to grant credit falling within the scope of
consumers, secured by a mortgage or by another
Article 3 in the course of his trade, business or profession.
comparable security commonly used in a Member State
on residential immovable property or secured by a right
related to residential immovable property, the purpose of
which is not to acquire or retain the right to residential (3) ‘Credit agreement’ means an agreement whereby a creditor
immovable property, provided that the Member States grants or promises to grant, to a consumer, a credit falling
apply to such credit agreements Articles 4 and 5 of and within the scope of Article 3 in the form of a deferred
Annexes II and III to Directive 2008/48/EC; payment, loan or other similar financial accommodation.
(b) this Directive to credit agreements which relate to an (4) ‘Ancillary service’ means a service offered to the consumer
immovable property where the credit agreement provides in conjunction with the credit agreement.
L 60/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(5) ‘Credit intermediary’ means a natural or legal person who covered by this Directive or who has contacts with
is not acting as a creditor or notary and not merely intro­ consumers in the course of activities covered by this
ducing, either directly or indirectly, a consumer to a Directive;
creditor or credit intermediary, and who, in the course
of his trade, business or profession, for remuneration,
which may take a pecuniary form or any other agreed
(b) any natural person working for an appointed represen­
form of financial consideration:
tative who has contacts with consumers in the course
of activities covered by this Directive;
(a) presents or offers credit agreements to consumers;
(c) any natural person directly managing or supervising
(b) assists consumers by undertaking preparatory work or the natural persons referred to in points (a) and (b).
other pre-contractual administration in respect of
credit agreements other than as referred to in
point (a); or (12) ‘Total amount of credit’ means the total amount of credit
as defined in point (l) of Article 3 of Directive
2008/48/EC.
(c) concludes credit agreements with consumers on behalf
of the creditor.
(13) ‘Total cost of the credit to the consumer’ means the total
cost of the credit to the consumer as defined in point (g)
(6) ‘Group’ means a group of creditors which are to be
of Article 3 of Directive 2008/48/EC including the cost of
consolidated for the purposes of drawing up consolidated
valuation of property where such valuation is necessary to
accounts, as defined in Directive 2013/34/EU of the
obtain the credit but excluding registration fees for the
European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June
transfer of ownership of the immovable property. It
2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated
excludes any charges payable by the consumer for non-
financial statements and related reports of certain types
of undertakings ( 1) .
c ao grm eep mlia en nc t.e with the commitments laid down in the credit
(7) ‘Tied credit intermediary’ means any credit intermediary
who acts on behalf of and under the full and uncon­ (14) ‘Total amount payable by the consumer’ means the total
ditional responsibility of: amount payable by the consumer as defined in point (h) of
Article 3 of Directive 2008/48/EC.
(a) only one creditor;
(15) ‘Annual percentage rate of charge’ (APRC) means the total
cost of the credit to the consumer, expressed as an annual
(b) only one group; or percentage of the total amount of credit, where applicable,
including the costs referred to in Article 17(2) and equates,
on an annual basis, to the present value of all future or
(c) a number of creditors or groups which does not
existing commitments (drawdowns, repayments and
represent the majority of the market.
charges) agreed by the creditor and the consumer.
(8) ‘Appointed representative’ means a natural or legal person
(16) ‘Borrowing rate’ means the borrowing rate as defined in
who performs activities referred to in point 5 that is acting
point (j) of Article 3 of Directive 2008/48/EC.
on behalf of and under the full and unconditional respon­
sibility of only one credit intermediary.
(17) ‘Creditworthiness assessment’ means the evaluation of the
(9) ‘Credit institution’ means credit institution as defined in prospect for the debt obligation resulting from the credit
point 1 of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. agreement to be met.
(10) ‘Non-credit institution’ means any creditor that is not a
(18) ‘Durable medium’ means durable medium as defined in
credit institution.
point (m) of Article 3 of Directive 2008/48/EC.
(11) ‘Staff’ means:
(19) ‘Home Member State’ means:
(a) any natural person working for the creditor, or credit
intermediary who is directly engaged in the activities (a) where the creditor or credit intermediary is a natural
person, the Member State in which his head office is
( 1 ) OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19. situated;
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/51
(b) where the creditor or credit intermediary is a legal (b) denominated in a currency other than that of the
person, the Member State in which its registered Member State in which the consumer is resident.
office is situated or, if under its national law it has
no registered office, the Member State in which its
head office is situated.
Article 5
Competent authorities
(20) ‘Host Member State’ means the Member State, other than
1. Member States shall designate the national competent
the home Member State, in which the creditor or credit
authorities empowered to ensure the application and
intermediary has a branch or provides services.
enforcement of this Directive and shall ensure that they are
granted investigating and enforcement powers and adequate
resources necessary for the efficient and effective performance
(21) ‘Advisory services’ means the provision of personal recom­
of their duties.
mendations to a consumer in respect of one or more
transactions relating to credit agreements and constitutes
a separate activity from the granting of a credit and from
the credit intermediation activities set out in point 5. The authorities referred to in the first subparagraph shall be
either public authorities or bodies recognised by national law
or by public authorities expressly empowered for that purpose
(22) ‘Competent authority’ means an authority designated as by national law. They shall not be creditors, credit inter­
competent by a Member State in accordance with mediaries or appointed representatives.
Article 5.
2. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities, all
(23) ‘Bridging loan’ means a credit agreement either of no fixed
persons who work or who have worked for the competent
duration or which is due to be repaid within 12 months,
authorities, as well as auditors and experts instructed by the
used by the consumer as a temporary financing solution
competent authorities, are bound by the obligation of profes­
while transitioning to another financial arrangement for
sional secrecy. No confidential information which they may
the immovable property.
receive in the course of their duties may be divulged to any
person or authority whatsoever, save in summary or aggregate
form, without prejudice to cases covered by criminal law or by
(24) ‘Contingent liability or guarantee’ means a credit
this Directive. This shall not, however, prevent the competent
agreement which acts as a guarantee to another separate
authorities from exchanging or transmitting confidential
but ancillary transaction, and where the capital secured
information in accordance with national and Union law.
against an immovable property is only drawn down if
an event or events specified in the contract occur.
3. Member States shall ensure that the authorities designated
(25) ‘Shared equity credit agreement’ means a credit agreement as competent for ensuring the application and enforcement of
where the capital repayable is based on a contractually set Articles 9, 29, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of this Directive are either or
percentage of the value of the immovable property at the both of the following:
time of the capital repayment or repayments.
(a) competent authorities as defined in Article 4(2) of Regu­
(26) ‘Tying practice’ means the offering or the selling of a credit lation (EU) No 1093/2010;
agreement in a package with other distinct financial
products or services where the credit agreement is not
made available to the consumer separately.
(b) authorities other than the competent authorities referred to
in point (a) provided that national laws, regulations or
administrative provisions require those authorities to
(27) ‘Bundling practice’ means the offering or the selling of a
cooperate with the competent authorities referred to in
credit agreement in a package with other distinct financial
point (a) whenever necessary in order to carry out their
products or services where the credit agreement is also
duties under this Directive, including for the purposes of
made available to the consumer separately but not
cooperating with the European Supervisory Authority
necessarily on the same terms or conditions as when
(European Banking Authority) (EBA) as required under this
offered bundled with the ancillary services.
Directive.
(28) ‘Foreign currency loan’ means a credit agreement where
the credit is: 4. Member States shall inform the Commission and EBA of
the designation of the competent authorities and any changes
thereto, indicating any division of the respective duties between
(a) denominated in a currency other than that in which different competent authorities. The first such notification shall
the consumer receives the income or holds the assets be made as soon as possible and at the latest on 21 March
from which the credit is to be repaid; or 2016.
L 60/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
5. The competent authorities shall exercise their powers in honestly, fairly, transparently and professionally, taking account
conformity with national law either: of the rights and interests of the consumers. In relation to the
granting, intermediating or provision of advisory services on
credit and, where appropriate, of ancillary services the activities
shall be based on information about the consumer’s circum­
(a) directly under their own authority or under the supervision
stances and any specific requirement made known by a
of the judicial authorities; or
consumer and on reasonable assumptions about risks to the
consumer’s situation over the term of the credit agreement. In
relation to such provision of advisory services, the activity shall
(b) by application to courts which are competent to grant the in addition be based on the information required under
necessary decision, including, where appropriate, by appeal, point (a) of Article 22(3).
if the application to grant the necessary decision is not
successful, except for Articles 9, 29, 32, 33, 34 and 35.
2. Member States shall ensure that the manner in which
creditors remunerate their staff and credit intermediaries and
6. Where there is more than one competent authority on
the manner in which credit intermediaries remunerate their
their territory, Member States shall ensure that their respective
staff and appointed representatives do not impede compliance
duties are clearly defined and that those authorities collaborate
with the obligation set out in paragraph 1.
closely so that they can discharge their respective duties effec­
tively.
3. Member States shall ensure that, when establishing and
applying remuneration policies for staff responsible for the
7. The Commission shall publish a list of the competent
assessment of creditworthiness, creditors comply with the
authorities in the Official Journal of the European Union at least
following principles in a way and to the extent that is appro­
once a year, and update it continuously on its website.
priate to their size, internal organisation and the nature, scope
and complexity of their activities:
CHAPTER 2
FINANCIAL EDUCATION (a) the remuneration policy is consistent with and promotes
sound and effective risk management and does not
Article 6
encourage risk-taking that exceeds the level of tolerated
risk of the creditor;
Financial education of consumers
1. Member States shall promote measures that support the
education of consumers in relation to responsible borrowing
(b) the remuneration policy is in line with the business strategy,
and debt management, in particular in relation to mortgage
objectives, values and long-term interests of the creditor,
credit agreements. Clear and general information on the credit
and incorporates measures to avoid conflicts of interest, in
granting process is necessary in order to guide consumers,
particular by providing that remuneration is not contingent
especially those who take out a mortgage credit for the first
on the number or proportion of applications accepted.
time. Information regarding the guidance that consumer organi­
sations and national authorities may provide to consumers, is
also necessary.
4. Member States shall ensure that where creditors, credit
intermediaries or appointed representatives provide advisory
services the remuneration structure of the staff involved does
2. The Commission shall publish an assessment of the
not prejudice their ability to act in the consumer’s best interest
financial education available to consumers in the Member
and in particular is not contingent on sales targets. In order to
States and identify examples of best practices which could be
achieve that goal, Member States may in addition ban
further developed in order to increase the financial awareness of
commissions paid by the creditor to the credit intermediary.
consumers.
5. Member States may prohibit or impose restrictions on
CHAPTER 3
payments from a consumer to a creditor or credit intermediary
CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO CREDITORS, CREDIT prior to the conclusion of a credit agreement.
INTERMEDIARIES AND APPOINTED REPRESENTATIVES
Article 7
Article 8
Conduct of business obligations when providing credit to
consumers Obligation to provide information free of charge to
consumers
1. Member States shall require that when manufacturing
credit products or granting, intermediating or providing Member States shall ensure that, when information is provided
advisory services on credit and, where appropriate, ancillary to consumers in compliance with the requirements set out in
services to consumers or when executing a credit agreement, this Directive, such information is provided without charge to
the creditor, credit intermediary or appointed representative acts the consumer.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/53
Article 9 CHAPTER 4
Knowledge and competence requirements for staff INFORMATION AND PRACTICES PRELIMINARY TO THE
CONCLUSION OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
1. Member States shall ensure that creditors, credit inter­
mediaries and appointed representatives require their staff to Article 10
possess and to keep up-to-date an appropriate level of
General provisions applicable to advertising and marketing
knowledge and competence in relation to the manufacturing,
the offering or granting of credit agreements, the carrying out Without prejudice to Directive 2005/29/EC, Member States
of credit intermediation activities set out in point 5 of Article 4 shall require that any advertising and marketing communi­
or the provision of advisory services. Where the conclusion of a cations concerning credit agreements are fair, clear and not
credit agreement includes an ancillary service, appropriate misleading. In particular, wording that may create false expec­
knowledge and competence in relation to that ancillary tations for a consumer regarding the availability or the cost of a
service shall be required. credit shall be prohibited.
Article 11
2. Except in the circumstances referred to in paragraph 3,
Standard information to be included in advertising
home Member States shall establish minimum knowledge and
competence requirements for creditors’, credit intermediaries’ 1. Member States shall ensure that any advertising
and appointed representatives’ staff in accordance with the prin­ concerning credit agreements which indicates an interest rate
ciples set out in Annex III. or any figures relating to the cost of the credit to the
consumer includes the standard information in accordance
with this Article.
3. Where a creditor or credit intermediary provides its
Member States may provide that the first subparagraph shall not
services within the territory of one or more other Member
apply where national law requires the indication of the APRC in
States:
advertising concerning credit agreements which does not
indicate an interest rate or any figures relating to any cost of
credit to the consumer within the meaning of the first subpara­
graph.
(i) through a branch, the host Member State shall be
responsible for establishing the minimum knowledge and
competence requirements applicable to the staff of a branch;
2. The standard information shall specify in a clear, concise
and prominent way:
(ii) under the freedom to provide services, the home Member (a) the identity of the creditor or, where applicable, the credit
State shall be responsible for establishing the minimum intermediary or appointed representative;
knowledge and competence requirements applicable to the
staff in accordance with Annex III, however host Member
States may establish the minimum knowledge and (b) where applicable, that the credit agreement will be secured
competence requirements for those requirements referred by a mortgage or another comparable security commonly
to in points (b), (c), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 of Annex III. used in a Member State on residential immovable property
or by a right related to residential immovable property;
4. Member States shall ensure that compliance with the (c) the borrowing rate, indicating whether this is fixed or
requirements of paragraph 1 is supervised by the competent variable or a combination of both, together with particulars
authorities, and that the competent authorities have powers to of any charges included in the total cost of the credit to the
require creditors, credit intermediaries and appointed represen­ consumer;
tatives to provide such evidence as the competent authority
deems necessary to enable such supervision.
(d) the total amount of credit;
(e) the APRC which shall be included in the advertisement at
5. For the effective supervision of creditors and credit inter­
least as prominently as any interest rate;
mediaries providing their services within the territory of other
Member States under the freedom to provide services, the
competent authorities of the host and the home Member
States shall cooperate closely for the effective supervision and (f) where applicable, the duration of the credit agreement;
enforcement of the minimum knowledge and competence
requirements of the host Member State. For that purpose they
may delegate tasks and responsibilities to each other. (g) where applicable, the amount of the instalments;
L 60/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(h) where applicable, the total amount payable by the default or to accumulate capital to repay the credit, to
consumer; service the credit or to pool resources to obtain the credit;
(i) where applicable, the number of instalments; (c) conclude a separate credit agreement in conjunction with a
shared-equity credit agreement to obtain the credit.
(j) where applicable, a warning regarding the fact that possible
fluctuations of the exchange rate could affect the amount 3. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member States may allow
payable by the consumer. tying practices when the creditor can demonstrate to its
competent authority that the tied products or categories of
product offered, on terms and conditions similar to each
other, which are not made available separately, result in a
3. The information listed in paragraph 2, other than that
clear benefit to the consumers taking due account of the avail­
listed in points (a), (b) or (j) thereof, shall be specified by
ability and the prices of the relevant products offered on the
means of a representative example and shall adhere to that
market. This paragraph shall only apply to products which are
representative example throughout. Member States shall adopt
marketed after 20 March 2014.
criteria for determining a representative example.
4. Member States may allow creditors to require the
4. Where the conclusion of a contract regarding an ancillary
consumer to hold a relevant insurance policy related to the
service, in particular insurance, is compulsory in order to obtain
credit agreement. In such cases Member States shall ensure
the credit or to obtain it on the terms and conditions marketed,
that the creditor accepts the insurance policy from a supplier
and the cost of that service cannot be determined in advance,
different to his preferred supplier where such policy has a level
the obligation to enter into that contract shall be stated in a
of guarantee equivalent to the one the creditor has proposed.
clear, concise and prominent way, together with the APRC.
Article 13
5. The information referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 shall be
easily legible or clearly audible as appropriate, depending on the General information
medium used for advertising.
1. Member States shall ensure that clear and comprehensible
general information about credit agreements is made available
by creditors or, where applicable, by tied credit intermediaries
6. Member States may require the inclusion of a concise and
or their appointed representatives at all times on paper or on
proportionate warning concerning specific risks associated with
another durable medium or in electronic form. In addition,
credit agreements. They shall notify those requirements to the
Member States may provide that general information is made
Commission without delay.
available by non-tied credit intermediaries.
7. This Article shall be without prejudice to Directive
Such general information shall include at least the following:
2005/29/EC.
(a) the identity and the geographical address of the issuer of
Article 12
the information;
Tying and bundling practices
1. Member States shall allow bundling practices but shall (b) the purposes for which the credit may be used;
prohibit tying practices.
(c) the forms of security, including, where applicable, the
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member States may provide possibility for it to be located in a different Member State;
that creditors can request the consumer or a family member or
close relation of the consumer to:
(d) the possible duration of the credit agreements;
(a) open or maintain a payment or a savings account, where
the only purpose of such an account is to accumulate (e) types of available borrowing rate, indicating whether fixed
capital to repay the credit, to service the credit, to pool or variable or both, with a short description of the char­
resources to obtain the credit, or to provide additional acteristics of a fixed and variable rate, including related
security for the creditor in the event of default; implications for the consumer;
(b) purchase or keep an investment product or a private (f) where foreign currency loans are available, an indication of
pension product, where such product which primarily the foreign currency or currencies, including an explanation
offers the investor an income in retirement serves also to of the implications for the consumer where the credit is
provide additional security for the creditor in the event of denominated in a foreign currency;
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/55
(g) a representative example of the total amount of credit, the 2. The personalised information referred to in paragraph 1,
total cost of the credit to the consumer, the total amount on paper or on another durable medium, shall be provided by
payable by the consumer and the APRC; means of the ESIS, as set out in Annex II.
(h) an indication of possible further costs, not included in the 3. Member States shall ensure that when an offer binding on
total cost of the credit to the consumer, to be paid in the creditor is provided to the consumer, it shall be provided on
connection with a credit agreement; paper or on another durable medium and accompanied by an
ESIS where:
(i) the range of different options available for reimbursing the
credit to the creditor, including the number, frequency and (a) no ESIS has been provided to the consumer previously; or
amount of the regular repayment instalments;
(b) the characteristics of the offer are different from the
(j) where applicable, a clear and concise statement that information contained in the ESIS previously provided.
compliance with the terms and conditions of the credit
agreement does not guarantee repayment of the total
amount of credit under the credit agreement; 4. Member States may provide for the obligatory provision
of the ESIS before the provision of an offer binding on the
creditor. Where a Member State so provides, it shall require
(k) a description of the conditions directly relating to early that the ESIS shall only be required to be provided again
repayment; where point (b) of paragraph 3 is met.
(l) whether a valuation of the property is necessary and, where 5. Member States which before 20 March 2014 have imple­
applicable, who is responsible for ensuring that the mented an information sheet that meets equivalent information
valuation is carried out, and whether any related costs requirements to those set out in Annex II may continue to use
arise for the consumer; it for the purposes of this Article until 21 March 2019.
(m) indication of ancillary services the consumer is obliged to 6. Member States shall specify a time period of at least seven
acquire in order to obtain the credit or to obtain it on the days during which the consumer will have sufficient time to
terms and conditions marketed and, where applicable, a compare offers, assess their implications and make an informed
clarification that the ancillary services may be purchased decision.
from a provider that is not the creditor; and
Member States shall specify that the time period referred to in
(n) a general warning concerning possible consequences of the first subparagraph shall be either a reflection period before
non-compliance with the commitments linked to the the conclusion of the credit agreement or a period for exercising
credit agreement. a right of withdrawal after the conclusion of the credit
agreement or a combination of the two.
2. Member States may oblige the creditors to include other
types of warnings which are relevant in a Member State. They Where a Member State specifies a reflection period before the
shall notify those requirements to the Commission without conclusion of a credit agreement:
delay.
(a) the offer shall be binding on the creditor for the duration of
Article 14 the reflection period; and
Pre-contractual information
1. Member States shall ensure that the creditor and, where (b) the consumer may accept the offer at any time during the
applicable, the credit intermediary or appointed representative, reflection period.
provides the consumer with the personalised information
needed to compare the credits available on the market, assess
their implications and make an informed decision on whether Member States may provide that consumers cannot accept the
to conclude a credit agreement: offer for a period not exceeding the first 10 days of the
reflection period.
(a) without undue delay after the consumer has given the
necessary information on his needs, financial situation and Where the borrowing rate or other costs applicable to the offer
preferences in accordance with Article 20; and are determined on the basis of the selling of underlying bonds
or other long-term funding instruments, Member States may
provide that the borrowing rate or other costs may vary from
(b) in good time before the consumer is bound by any credit that stated in the offer in accordance with the value of the
agreement or offer. underlying bond or other long-term funding instrument.
L 60/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
Where the consumer has a right of withdrawal in accordance (a) the identity and the geographical address of the credit inter­
with the second subparagraph of this paragraph, Article 6 of mediary;
Directive 2002/65/EC shall not apply.
(b) the register in which he has been included, the registration
7. The creditor and, where applicable, the credit intermediary number, where applicable, and the means for verifying such
or appointed representative who has supplied the ESIS to the registration;
consumer shall be deemed to have fulfilled the requirements
regarding information provision to the consumer prior to the
conclusion of a distance contract as laid down in Article 3(1) of
(c) whether the credit intermediary is tied to or works
Directive 2002/65/EC and shall be deemed to satisfy the
exclusively for one or more creditors. Where the credit
requirements of Article 5(1) of that Directive only where they
intermediary is tied to or works exclusively for one or
have at least supplied the ESIS prior to the conclusion of the
more creditors, it shall provide the names of the creditors
contract.
for which it is acting. The credit intermediary may disclose
that it is independent where it meets the conditions laid
down in accordance with Article 22(4);
8. Member States shall not modify the ESIS model other
than as provided for in Annex II. Any additional information
which the creditor or, where applicable, the credit intermediary
or appointed representative, may provide to the consumer or is (d) whether the credit intermediary offers advisory services;
required to provide to the consumer by national law shall be
given in a separate document which may be annexed to the
ESIS. (e) the fee, where applicable, payable by the consumer to the
credit intermediary for its services or where this is not
possible, the method for calculating the fee;
9. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated
acts in accordance with Article 40 to amend the standard
wording in Part A of Annex II or the instructions in Part B
(f) the procedures allowing consumers or other interested
thereof to address the need for information or warnings
parties to register complaints internally about credit inter­
concerning new products that were not marketed before
mediaries and, where appropriate, the means by which
20 March 2014. Such delegated acts shall however not
recourse to out-of-court complaint and redress procedures
change the structure or format of the ESIS.
can be sought;
10. In the case of voice telephony communications, as
(g) where applicable, the existence and where known the
referred to in Article 3(3) of Directive 2002/65/EC, the
amount of commissions or other inducements, payable by
description of the main characteristics of the financial service
the creditor or third parties to the credit intermediary for
to be provided pursuant to the second indent of point (b) of
their services in relation to the credit agreement. Where the
Article 3(3) of that Directive shall include at least the items
amount is not known at the time of disclosure the credit
referred to in sections 3 to 6 of Part A of Annex II to this
intermediary shall inform the consumer that the actual
Directive.
amount will be disclosed at a later stage in the ESIS.
11. Member States shall ensure that at least where no right
2. Credit intermediaries who are not tied but who receive
of withdrawal exists the creditor or, where applicable, the credit
commission from one or more creditors shall, at the consumer’s
intermediary or appointed representative provides the consumer
request, provide information on the variation in levels of
with a copy of the draft credit agreement, at the time of the
commission payable by the different creditors providing the
provision of an offer binding on the creditor. Where a right of
credit agreements being offered to the consumer. The
withdrawal exists, Member States shall ensure that the creditor
consumer shall be informed that he has the right to request
or, where applicable, the credit intermediary or appointed repre­
such information.
sentative offers to provide the consumer with a copy of the
draft credit agreement at the time of the provision of an offer
binding on the creditor.
3. Where the credit intermediary charges a fee to the
consumer and additionally receives commission from the
creditor or a third party, the credit intermediary shall explain
Article 15
to the consumer whether or not the commission will be offset
Information requirements concerning credit intermediaries against the fee, either in part or in full.
and appointed representatives
1. Member States shall ensure that in good time before the
carrying out of any of the credit intermediation activities set out 4. Member States shall ensure that the fee, if any, payable by
in point 5 of Article 4, the credit intermediary or appointed the consumer to the credit intermediary for its services is
representative shall provide the consumer with at least the communicated to the creditor by the credit intermediary, for
following information on paper or on another durable medium: the purpose of calculating of the APRC.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/57
5. Member States shall require credit intermediaries to ensure 2. The costs of opening and maintaining a specific account,
that in addition to the disclosures required by this Article, their of using a means of payment for both transactions and
appointed representative discloses to the consumer the capacity drawdowns on that account and of other costs relating to
in which he is acting and the credit intermediary he is repre­ payment transactions shall be included in the total cost of
senting when contacting or before dealing with any consumer. credit to the consumer whenever the opening or maintaining
of an account is obligatory in order to obtain the credit or to
obtain it on the terms and conditions marketed.
Article 16
Adequate explanations
3. The calculation of the APRC shall be based on the
1. Member States shall ensure that creditors and, where assumption that the credit agreement is to remain valid for
applicable, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives the period agreed and that the creditor and the consumer will
provide adequate explanations to the consumer on the fulfil their obligations under the terms and by the dates
proposed credit agreements and any ancillary services, in specified in the credit agreement.
order to place the consumer in a position enabling him to
assess whether the proposed credit agreements and ancillary
services are adapted to his needs and financial situation.
4. In the case of credit agreements containing clauses
allowing variations in the borrowing rate and, where applicable,
in the charges contained in the APRC but unquantifiable at the
The explanations shall, where applicable, include in particular: time of calculation, the APRC shall be calculated on the
assumption that the borrowing rate and other charges will
remain fixed in relation to the level set at the conclusion of
(a) the pre-contractual information to be provided in the contract.
accordance with:
5. For credit agreements for which a fixed borrowing rate is
(i) Article 14 in the case of creditors; agreed in relation to the initial period of at least five years, at
the end of which a negotiation on the borrowing rate takes
place to agree on a new fixed rate for a further material
period, the calculation of the additional, illustrative APRC
(ii) Articles 14 and 15 in the case of credit intermediaries or
disclosed in the ESIS shall cover only the initial fixed rate
appointed representatives;
period and shall be based on the assumption that, at the end
of the fixed borrowing rate period, the capital outstanding is
repaid.
(b) the essential characteristics of the products proposed;
6. Where the credit agreement allows for variations in the
(c) the specific effects the products proposed may have on the
borrowing rate, Member States shall ensure that the consumer is
consumer, including the consequences of default in payment
informed of the possible impacts of variations on the amounts
by the consumer; and
payable and on the APRC at least by means of the ESIS. This
shall be done by providing the consumer with an additional
APRC which illustrates the possible risks linked to a significant
(d) where ancillary services are bundled with a credit agreement, increase in the borrowing rate. Where the borrowing rate is not
whether each component of the bundle can be terminated capped, this information shall be accompanied by a warning
separately and the implications for the consumer of doing highlighting that the total cost of the credit to the consumer,
so. shown by the APRC, may change. This provision shall not
apply to credit agreements where the borrowing rate is fixed
for an initial period of at least five years, at the end of which a
2. Member States may adapt the manner by which and the negotiation on the borrowing rate takes place in order to agree
extent to which the explanations referred to in paragraph 1 is on a new fixed rate for a further material period, for which an
given, as well as by whom it is given, to the circumstances of additional, illustrative APRC is provided for in the ESIS.
the situation in which the credit agreement is offered, the
person to whom it is offered and the nature of the credit
offered. 7. Where applicable, the additional assumptions set out in
Annex I shall be used in calculating the APRC.
CHAPTER 5
ANNUAL PERCENTAGE RATE OF CHARGE 8. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated
acts in accordance with Article 40 in order to amend the
Article 17 remarks or update the assumptions used to calculate the
APRC as set out in Annex I, in particular if the remarks or
Calculation of the APRC
assumptions set out in this Article and in Annex I do not
1. The APRC shall be calculated in accordance with the suffice to calculate the APRC in a uniform manner or are no
mathematical formula set out in Annex I. longer adapted to the commercial situation on the market.
L 60/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
CHAPTER 6 after the conclusion of the credit agreement unless such
additional credit was envisaged and included in the original
CREDITWORTHINESS ASSESSMENT
creditworthiness assessment.
Article 18
Obligation to assess the creditworthiness of the consumer
7. This Article shall be without prejudice to Directive
1. Member States shall ensure that, before concluding a 95/46/EC.
credit agreement, the creditor makes a thorough assessment
of the consumer’s creditworthiness. That assessment shall take
appropriate account of factors relevant to verifying the prospect Article 19
of the consumer to meet his obligations under the credit
Property valuation
agreement.
1. Member States shall ensure that reliable standards for the
valuation of residential immovable property for mortgage
2. Member States shall ensure that the procedures and lending purposes are developed within their territory. Member
information on which the assessment is based are established, States shall require creditors to ensure that those standards are
documented and maintained. used where they carry out a property valuation or to take
reasonable steps to ensure that those standards are applied
where a valuation is conducted by a third party. Where
national authorities are responsible for regulating independent
3. The assessment of creditworthiness shall not rely predomi­
appraisers who carry out property valuations they shall ensure
nantly on the value of the residential immovable property
that they comply with the national rules that are in place.
exceeding the amount of the credit or the assumption that
the residential immovable property will increase in value
unless the purpose of the credit agreement is to construct or
renovate the residential immovable property. 2. Member States shall ensure that internal and external
appraisers conducting property valuations are professionally
competent and sufficiently independent from the credit under­
writing process so that they can provide an impartial and
4. Member States shall ensure that where a creditor
objective valuation, which shall be documented in a durable
concludes a credit agreement with a consumer the creditor
medium and of which a record shall be kept by the creditor.
shall not subsequently cancel or alter the credit agreement to
the detriment of the consumer on the grounds that the
assessment of creditworthiness was incorrectly conducted. This
paragraph shall not apply where it is demonstrated that the Article 20
consumer knowingly withheld or falsified the information
Disclosure and verification of consumer information
within the meaning of Article 20.
1. The assessment of creditworthiness referred to in
Article 18 shall be carried out on the basis of information on
the consumer’s income and expenses and other financial and
5. Member States shall ensure that:
economic circumstances which is necessary, sufficient and
proportionate. The information shall be obtained by the
creditor from relevant internal or external sources, including
(a) the creditor only makes the credit available to the consumer
the consumer, and including information provided to the
where the result of the creditworthiness assessment indicates
credit intermediary or appointed representative during the
that the obligations resulting from the credit agreement are
credit application process. The information shall be appro­
likely to be met in the manner required under that
priately verified, including through reference to independently
agreement;
verifiable documentation when necessary.
(b) in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 95/46/EC, the
2. Member States shall ensure that credit intermediaries or
creditor informs the consumer in advance that a database is
appointed representatives accurately submit the necessary
to be consulted;
information obtained from the consumer to the relevant
creditor to enable the creditworthiness assessment to be
carried out.
(c) where the credit application is rejected the creditor informs
the consumer without delay of the rejection and, where
applicable, that the decision is based on automated 3. Member States shall ensure that creditors specify in a clear
processing of data. Where the rejection is based on the and straightforward way at the pre-contractual phase the
result of the database consultation, the creditor shall necessary information and independently verifiable evidence
inform the consumer of the result of such consultation that the consumer needs to provide and the timeframe within
and of the particulars of the database consulted. which the consumer needs to provide the information. Such
request for information shall be proportionate and limited to
what is necessary to conduct a proper creditworthiness
6. Member States shall ensure that the consumer’s creditwor­ assessment. Member States shall allow creditors to seek clarifi­
thiness is re-assessed on the basis of updated information before cation of the information received in response to that request
any significant increase in the total amount of credit is granted where necessary to enable the assessment of creditworthiness.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/59
Member States shall not allow a creditor to terminate the credit 2. Member States shall ensure that before the provision of
agreement on the grounds that the information provided by the advisory services or, where applicable, the conclusion of a
consumer before the conclusion of the credit agreement was contract for the provision of advisory services, the creditor,
incomplete. credit intermediary or appointed representative provides the
consumer with the following information on paper or
another durable medium:
The second subparagraph shall not prevent Member States from
allowing the termination of the credit agreement by the creditor
where it is demonstrated that the consumer knowingly withheld
(a) whether the recommendation will be based on considering
or falsified the information.
only their own product range in accordance with point (b)
of paragraph 3 or a wide range of products from across the
market in accordance with point (c) of paragraph 3 so that
4. Member States shall have measures in place to ensure that
the consumer can understand the basis on which the
consumers are aware of the need to provide correct information
recommendation is made;
in response to the request referred to in the first subparagraph
of paragraph 3 and that such information is as complete as
necessary to conduct a proper creditworthiness assessment.
The creditor, credit intermediary or appointed representative
(b) where applicable, the fee payable by the consumer for the
shall warn the consumer that, where the creditor is unable to
advisory services or, where the amount cannot be ascer­
carry out an assessment of creditworthiness because the
tained at the time of disclosure, the method used for its
consumer chooses not to provide the information or verifi­
calculation.
cation necessary for an assessment of creditworthiness, the
credit cannot be granted. That warning may be provided in a
standardised format.
The information referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first
subparagraph may be provided to the consumer in the form of
5. This Article shall be without prejudice to Directive additional pre-contractual information.
95/46/EC, in particular Article 6 thereof.
3. Where advisory services are provided to consumers,
CHAPTER 7
Member States shall ensure, in addition to the requirements
DATABASE ACCESS set out in Articles 7 and 9, that:
Article 21
Database access
(a) creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives
1. Each Member State shall ensure access for all creditors
obtain the necessary information regarding the consumer’s
from all Member States to databases used in that Member
personal and financial situation, his preferences and
State for assessing the creditworthiness of consumers and for
objectives so as to enable the recommendation of suitable
the sole purpose of monitoring consumers’ compliance with the
credit agreements. Such an assessment shall be based on
credit obligations over the life of the credit agreement. The
information that is up to date at that moment in time
conditions for such access shall be non-discriminatory.
and shall take into account reasonable assumptions as to
risks to the consumer’s situation over the term of the
proposed credit agreement;
2. Paragraph 1 shall apply both to databases which are
operated by private credit bureaux or credit reference agencies
and to public registers.
(b) creditors, tied credit intermediaries or appointed represen­
tatives of tied credit intermediaries consider a sufficiently
large number of credit agreements in their product range
3. This Article shall be without prejudice to Directive
and recommend a suitable credit agreements or several
95/46/EC.
suitable credit agreements from among their product
range for the consumer’s needs, financial situation and
personal circumstances;
CHAPTER 8
ADVISORY SERVICES
Article 22 (c) non-tied credit intermediaries or appointed representatives
of non-tied credit intermediaries consider a sufficiently large
Standards for advisory services
number of credit agreements available on the market and
1. Member States shall ensure that the creditor, credit inter­ recommend a suitable credit agreement or several suitable
mediary or appointed representative explicitly informs the credit agreements available on the market for the
consumer, in the context of a given transaction, whether consumer’s needs, financial situation and personal circum­
advisory services are being or can be provided to the consumer. stances;
L 60/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(d) creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives Member States may decide not to apply the first subparagraph
act in the best interests of the consumer by: to persons:
(i) informing themselves about the consumer’s needs and
(a) carrying out the credit intermediation activities set out in
circumstances; and
point 5 of Article 4 or providing advisory services where
those activities are carried out or services are provided in an
incidental manner in the course of a professional activity
(ii) recommending suitable credit agreements in accordance and that activity is regulated by legal or regulatory
with points (a), (b) and (c); and provisions or a code of ethics governing the profession
which do not exclude carrying out of those activities or
the provision of those services;
(e) creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives
give the consumer a record on paper or on another durable
medium of the recommendation provided.
(b) providing advisory services in the context of managing
existing debt which are insolvency practitioners where that
activity is regulated by legal or regulatory provisions or
4. Member States may prohibit the use of the term ‘advice’
public or voluntary debt advisory services which do not
and ‘advisor’ or similar terms when the advisory services are
operate on a commercial basis; or
being provided to consumers by creditors, tied credit inter­
mediaries or appointed representatives of tied credit intermedi­
aries.
(c) providing advisory services who are not creditors, credit
intermediaries or appointed representatives where such
Where Member States do not prohibit the use of the term persons are admitted and supervised by competent auth­
‘advice’ and ‘advisor’, they shall impose the following conditions orities in accordance with the requirements for credit inter­
on the use of the term ‘independent advice’ or ‘independent mediaries under this Directive.
advisor’ by creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed repre­
sentatives providing advisory services:
Persons benefiting from the waiver in the second subparagraph
shall not benefit from the right referred to in Article 32(1) to
(a) creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives
provide services for the entire territory of the Union.
shall consider a sufficiently large number of credit
agreements available on the market; and
7. This Article shall be without prejudice to Article 16 and
(b) creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed representatives to Member States’ competence to ensure that services are made
shall not be remunerated for those advisory services by one available to consumers to help them understand their financial
or more creditors. needs and which types of products are likely to meet those
needs.
Point (b) of the second subparagraph shall apply only where the
number of creditors considered is less than a majority of the
market. CHAPTER 9
FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS AND VARIABLE RATE LOANS
Article 23
Member States may impose more stringent requirements in
relation to the use of the terms ‘independent advice’ or ‘inde­ Foreign currency loans
pendent advisor’ by creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed
representatives, including a ban on receiving remuneration from 1. Member States shall ensure that, where a credit agreement
a creditor. relates to a foreign currency loan, an appropriate regulatory
framework is in place at the time the credit agreement is
concluded to at least ensure that:
5. Member States may provide for an obligation for
creditors, credit intermediaries and appointed representatives
to warn a consumer when, considering the consumer’s
(a) the consumer has a right to convert the credit agreement
financial situation, a credit agreement may induce a specific
into an alternative currency under specified conditions; or
risk for the consumer.
6. Member States shall ensure that advisory services are only (b) there are other arrangements in place to limit the exchange
provided by creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed repre­ rate risk to which the consumer is exposed under the credit
sentatives. agreement.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/61
2. The alternative currency referred to in point (a) of Article 24
paragraph 1 shall be either:
Variable rate credits
Where the credit agreement is a variable rate credit, Member
States shall ensure that:
(a) the currency in which the consumer primarily receives
income or holds assets from which the credit is to be
repaid, as indicated at the time the most recent creditwor­
thiness assessment in relation to the credit agreement was (a) any indexes or reference rates used to calculate the
made; or borrowing rate are clear, accessible, objective and verifiable
by the parties to the credit agreement and the competent
authorities; and
(b) the currency of the Member State in which the consumer
either was resident at the time the credit agreement was
(b) historical records of indexes for calculating the borrowing
concluded or is currently resident.
rates are maintained either by the providers of these indexes
or the creditors.
Member States may specify whether both of the choices referred
to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph are available to CHAPTER 10
the consumer or only one of them or may allow creditors to
SOUND EXECUTION OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS AND RELATED
specify whether both of the choices referred to in points (a) and
RIGHTS
(b) of the first subparagraph are available to the consumer or
only one of them. Article 25
Early repayment
1. Member States shall ensure that the consumer has a right
3. Where a consumer has a right to convert the credit
to discharge fully or partially his obligations under a credit
agreement into an alternative currency in accordance with
agreement prior to the expiry of that agreement. In such
point (a) of paragraph 1, the Member States shall ensure that
cases, the consumer shall be entitled to a reduction in the
the exchange rate at which the conversion is carried out is the
total cost of the credit to the consumer, such reduction
market exchange rate applicable on the day of application for
consisting of the interest and the costs for the remaining
conversion unless otherwise specified in the credit agreement.
duration of the contract.
4. Member States shall ensure that where a consumer has a 2. Member States may provide that the exercise of the right
foreign currency loan, the creditor warns the consumer on a referred to in paragraph 1 is subject to certain conditions. Such
regular basis on paper or on another durable medium at least conditions may include time limitations on the exercise of the
where the value of the total amount payable by the consumer right, a different treatment depending on the type of the
which remains outstanding or of the regular instalments varies borrowing rate or on the moment the consumer exercises the
by more than 20 % from what it would be if the exchange rate right, or restrictions with regard to the circumstances under
between the currency of the credit agreement and the currency which the right may be exercised.
of the Member State applicable at the time of the conclusion of
the credit agreement were applied. The warning shall inform the
consumer of a rise in the total amount payable by the
3. Member States may provide that the creditor is entitled to
consumer, set out where applicable the right to convert to an
fair and objective compensation, where justified, for possible
alternative currency and the conditions for doing so and explain
costs directly linked to the early repayment but shall not
any other applicable mechanism for limiting the exchange rate
impose a sanction on the consumer. In that regard, the
risk to which the consumer is exposed.
compensation shall not exceed the financial loss of the
creditor. Subject to those conditions Member States may
provide that the compensation may not exceed a certain level
or be allowed only for a certain period of time.
5. Member States may further regulate foreign currency loans
provided that such regulation is not applied with retrospective
effect.
4. Where a consumer seeks to discharge his obligations
under a credit agreement prior to the expiry of the agreement,
the creditor shall provide the consumer without delay after
6. The arrangements applicable under this Article shall be receipt of the request, on paper or on another durable
disclosed to the consumer in the ESIS and in the credit medium, with the information necessary to consider that
agreement. Where there is no provision in the credit option. That information shall at least quantify the implications
agreement to limit the exchange rate risk to which the for the consumer of discharging his obligations prior to the
consumer is exposed to a fluctuation in the exchange rate of expiry of the credit agreement and clearly set out any
less than 20 %, the ESIS shall include an illustrative example of assumptions used. Any assumptions used shall be reasonable
the impact of a 20 % fluctuation in the exchange rate. and justifiable.
L 60/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
5. Where the early repayment falls within a period for which good time before the auction, inform the consumer on paper
the borrowing rate is fixed Member States may provide that the or on another durable medium of the upcoming procedure and
exercise of the right referred to in paragraph 1 is subject to the provide an indication of how the borrowing rate could be
existence of a legitimate interest on the part of the consumer. affected.
Article 26 Article 28
Flexible and reliable markets Arrears and foreclosure
1. Member States shall have appropriate mechanisms in 1. Member States shall adopt measures to encourage
place to ensure that the claim against the security is enforceable creditors to exercise reasonable forbearance before foreclosure
by or on behalf of creditors. Member States shall ensure that proceedings are initiated.
creditors keep appropriate records concerning the types of
immovable property accepted as a security as well as the
related mortgage underwriting policies used.
2. Member States may require that, where the creditor is
permitted to define and impose charges on the consumer
arising from the default, those charges are no greater than is
necessary to compensate the creditor for costs it has incurred as
2. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure
a result of the default.
an appropriate statistical monitoring of the residential property
market, including for market surveillance purposes, where
appropriate by encouraging the development and use of
specific price indexes which may be public or private or both.
3. Member States may allow creditors to impose additional
charges on the consumer in the event of default. In that case
Member States shall place a cap on those charges.
Article 27
Information concerning changes in the borrowing rate
4. Member States shall not prevent the parties to a credit
1. Member States shall ensure that the creditor informs the agreement from expressly agreeing that return or transfer to the
consumer of any change in the borrowing rate, on paper or creditor of the security or proceeds from the sale of the security
another durable medium, before the change takes effect. The is sufficient to repay the credit.
information shall at least state the amount of the payments to
be made after the new borrowing rate takes effect and, in cases
where the number or frequency of the payments changes,
particulars thereof.
5. Where the price obtained for the immovable property
affects the amount owed by the consumer Member States
shall have procedures or measures to enable the best efforts
price for the foreclosed immovable property to be obtained.
2. However, the Member States may allow the parties to
agree in the credit agreement that the information referred to
in paragraph 1 is to be given to the consumer periodically
where the change in the borrowing rate is correlated with a Where after foreclosure proceedings outstanding debt remains,
change in a reference rate, the new reference rate is made Member States shall ensure that measures to facilitate
publicly available by appropriate means and the information repayment in order to protect consumers are put in place.
concerning the new reference rate is kept available in the
premises of the creditor and communicated personally to the
consumer together with the amount of new periodic instal­
ments.
CHAPTER 11
REQUIREMENTS FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND SUPERVISION OF
CREDIT INTERMEDIARIES AND APPOINTED
REPRESENTATIVES
3. Creditors may continue to inform consumers periodically
where the change in the borrowing rate is not correlated with a Article 29
change in a reference rate where this was allowed under
national law before 20 March 2014. Admission of credit intermediaries
1. Credit intermediaries shall be duly admitted to carry out
all or part of the credit intermediation activities set out in
point 5 of Article 4 or to provide advisory services by a
4. Where changes in the borrowing rate are determined by competent authority in their home Member State. Where a
way of auction on the capital markets and it is therefore Member State allows appointed representatives under Article 31,
impossible for the creditor to inform the consumer of any such an appointed representative shall not need to be admitted
change before the change takes effect, the creditor shall, in as a credit intermediary under this Article.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/63
2. Member States shall ensure that the admission of credit 3. Member States shall ensure that the criteria established in
intermediaries is made subject to fulfilment of at least the order for credit intermediaries’ or creditors’ staff to meet their
following professional requirements in addition to the professional requirements are made public.
requirements provided for in Article 9:
4. Member States shall ensure that all admitted credit inter­
mediaries, whether established as natural or legal persons, are
(a) Credit intermediaries shall hold professional indemnity entered into a register with a competent authority in their home
insurance covering the territories in which they offer Member State. Member States shall ensure that the register of
services, or some other comparable guarantee against credit intermediaries is kept up to date and is publicly available
liability arising from professional negligence. However, for online.
tied credit intermediaries, the home Member State may
provide that such insurance or comparable guarantee can
be provided by a creditor for which the credit intermediary
is empowered to act. The register of credit intermediaries shall contain at least the
following information:
Powers are delegated to the Commission to adopt and, (a) the names of the persons within the management who are
where necessary amend, regulatory technical standards to responsible for the intermediation business. Member States
stipulate the minimum monetary amount of the profes­ may require the registration of all natural persons who
sional indemnity insurance or comparable guarantee exercise a client-facing function in an undertaking that
referred to in the first paragraph of this point. Those regu­ pursues the activity of credit intermediation;
latory technical standards shall be adopted in accordance
with Articles 10 to 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
(b) the Member States in which the credit intermediary
conducts business under the rules on the freedom of estab­
lishment or on the freedom to provide services and of
EBA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to
which the credit intermediary has informed the competent
stipulate the minimum monetary amount of the profes­
authority of the home Member State in accordance with
sional indemnity insurance or comparable guarantee
Article 32(3);
referred to in the first paragraph of this point for
submission to the Commission by 21 September 2014.
EBA shall review, and if necessary, develop draft regulatory
technical standards to amend the minimum monetary (c) whether the credit intermediary is tied or not.
amount of the professional indemnity insurance or
comparable guarantee referred to in the first paragraph of
this point for submission to the Commission for the first
Member States that decide to avail themselves of the option
time by 21 March 2018 and every two years thereafter.
referred to in Article 30 shall ensure that the register
indicates the creditor on whose behalf the tied credit inter­
mediary acts.
(b) A natural person established as a credit intermediary, the
members of the board of a credit intermediary established as
Member States that decide to avail themselves of the option
a legal person and natural persons performing equivalent
referred to in Article 31 shall ensure that the register
tasks within a credit intermediary which is a legal person
indicates the credit intermediary or in the case of an
but does not have a board shall be of good repute. As a
appointed representative of a tied credit intermediary, the
minimum they shall have a clean police record or any other
creditor on whose behalf the appointed representatives acts.
national equivalent in relation to serious criminal offences
linked to crimes against property or other crimes related to
financial activities and they shall not have previously been
declared bankrupt, unless they have been rehabilitated in 5. Member States shall ensure that:
accordance with national law.
(a) any credit intermediary which is a legal person has its head
office in the same Member State as its registered office if
(c) A natural person established as a credit intermediary, the
under its national law it has a registered office;
members of the board of a credit intermediary established as
a legal person and natural persons performing equivalent
tasks within a credit intermediary which is a legal person
but does not have a board shall possess the appropriate (b) any credit intermediary which is not a legal person or any
level of knowledge and competence in relation to credit credit intermediary which is a legal person but under its
agreements. The home Member State shall establish the national law has no registered office has its head office in
appropriate level of knowledge and competence in the Member State in which it actually carries on its main
accordance with the principles set out in Annex III. business.
L 60/64 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
6. Each Member State shall establish a single information Article 31
point to allow quick and easy public access to information
Appointed representatives
from the national register, which shall be compiled elec­
tronically and kept constantly updated. These information 1. Member States may decide to allow a credit intermediary
points shall provide the identification details of the competent to appoint appointed representatives.
authorities of each Member State.
Where the appointed representative is appointed by a tied credit
EBA shall publish on its website references or hyperlinks to that intermediary specified in point (a) of point 7 of Article 4, the
information point. creditor shall remain fully and unconditionally responsible for
any action or omission on the part of the appointed represen­
tative that is acting on behalf of that tied credit intermediary in
areas regulated by this Directive. In other cases the credit inter­
7. Home Member States shall ensure that all admitted credit mediary shall remain fully and unconditionally responsible for
intermediaries and appointed representatives comply with the any action or omission on the part of the appointed represen­
requirements defined in paragraph 2 on a continuing basis. This tative acting on behalf of the credit intermediary in areas
paragraph shall be without prejudice to Articles 30 and 31. regulated by this Directive.
2. The credit intermediaries shall ensure that their appointed
8. Member States may decide not to apply this Article to
representatives comply at least with the professional
persons carrying out the credit intermediation activities set
requirements set out in Article 29(2). However, the home
out in point 5 of Article 4 where those activities are carried
Member State may provide that the professional indemnity
out in an incidental manner in the course of a professional
insurance or a comparable guarantee can be provided by a
activity and that activity is regulated by legal or regulatory
credit intermediary for which the appointed representative is
provisions or a code of ethics governing the profession which
empowered to act.
do not exclude the carrying out of those activities.
3. Without prejudice to Article 34, credit intermediaries shall
9. This Article shall not apply to credit institutions auth­
monitor the activities of their appointed representatives in order
orised in accordance with Directive 2013/36/EU or to other
to ensure full compliance with this Directive. In particular, the
financial institutions which under national law are subject to
credit intermediaries shall be responsible for monitoring
an equivalent authorisation and supervision regime.
compliance with the knowledge and competence requirements
of the appointed representatives and their staff.
Article 30
4. Member States that decide to allow a credit intermediary
Credit intermediaries tied to only one creditor
to appoint appointed representatives shall establish a public
1. Without prejudice to Article 31(1), Member States may register containing at least the information referred to in
allow tied credit intermediaries specified in point (a) of point 7 Article 29(4). Appointed representatives shall be registered in
of Article 4 to be admitted by competent authorities through the public register in the Member State where they are estab­
the creditor on whose behalf the tied credit intermediary is lished. The register shall be updated on a regular basis. It shall
exclusively acting. be publicly available for consultation online.
In such cases, the creditor shall remain fully and uncon­ Article 32
ditionally responsible for any action or omission on the part
Freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services
of the tied credit intermediary that is acting on behalf of the
by credit intermediaries
creditor in areas regulated by this Directive. Member States shall
require the creditor to ensure that those tied credit inter­ 1. The admission of a credit intermediary by the competent
mediaries comply with at least the professional requirements authority of its home Member State as laid down in
set out in Article 29(2). Article 29(1) shall be effective for the entire territory of the
Union without further admission by the competent authorities
of the host Member States being required for the carrying out of
the activities and provision of services covered by the
2. Without prejudice to Article 34, creditors shall monitor admission, provided that the activities a credit intermediary
the activities of tied credit intermediaries specified in point (a) of intends to carry out in the host Member States are covered
point 7 of Article 4 in order to ensure that they continue to by the admission. However, credit intermediaries shall not be
comply with this Directive. In particular, the creditor shall be allowed to provide their services in relation to credit agreements
responsible for monitoring compliance with the knowledge and offered by non-credit institutions to consumers in a Member
competence requirements of the tied credit intermediary and its State where such non-credit institutions are not allowed to
staff. operate.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/65
2. Appointed representatives appointed in Member States (c) no longer fulfils the requirements under which admission
which avail themselves of the option under Article 31 are not was granted;
allowed to carry out part or all of the credit intermediation
activities set out in point 5 of Article 4 or to provide
advisory services in Member States where such appointed repre­
sentatives are not allowed to operate. (d) falls within any of the cases where national law, in respect
of matters outside the scope of this Directive, provides for
withdrawal;
3. Any admitted credit intermediary intending to carry out
business for the first time in one or more Member States under
the freedom to provide services or when establishing a branch (e) has seriously or systematically infringed the provisions
shall inform the competent authorities of its home Member adopted pursuant to this Directive governing the operating
State. conditions for credit intermediaries.
Within a period of one month after being informed, those 2. Where the admission of a credit intermediary is
competent authorities shall notify the competent authorities of withdrawn by the competent authority of the home Member
the host Member States concerned of the intention of the credit State, the latter shall notify the competent authorities of the
intermediary and shall at the same time inform the credit inter­ host Member States of such withdrawal as soon as possible
mediary concerned of that notification. They shall notify the and at the latest within 14 days, by any appropriate means.
competent authorities of the host Member States concerned of
the creditors to which the credit intermediary is tied and
whether the creditors take full and unconditional responsibility
for the credit intermediary’s activities. The host Member State 3. Member States shall ensure that credit intermediaries
shall use the information received from the home Member State whose admission has been withdrawn are deleted from the
to enter the necessary information into its register. register without undue delay.
The credit intermediary may start business one month after the Article 34
date on which he was informed by the competent authorities of
Supervision of credit intermediaries and appointed
the home Member State of the notification referred to in the
representatives
second subparagraph.
1. Member States shall ensure that credit intermediaries are
subject to supervision of their ongoing activities by the
competent authorities of the home Member State.
4. Before the branch of a credit intermediary commences its
activities or within two months of receiving the notification
referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3, the
competent authorities of the host Member State shall prepare
Home Member States shall provide that tied credit inter­
for the supervision of the credit intermediary in accordance
mediaries are to be subject to supervision directly or as part
with Article 34 and, if necessary, indicate to the credit inter­
of the supervision of the creditor on behalf of which they act if
mediary the conditions under which, in areas not harmonised in
the creditor is a credit institution authorised in accordance with
Union law, those activities are to be carried out in the host
Directive 2013/36/EU or another financial institution which
Member State.
under national law is subject to an equivalent authorisation
and supervision regime. However, if the tied credit intermediary
provides services in a Member State other than the home
Article 33 Member State, then the tied credit intermediary shall be
subject to supervision directly.
Withdrawal of admission of credit intermediaries
1. The competent authority of the home Member State may
withdraw the admission granted to a credit intermediary in
Home Member States which allow credit intermediaries to
accordance with Article 29 where such a credit intermediary:
appoint representatives in accordance with Article 31 shall
ensure that such appointed representatives are subject to super­
vision either directly or as part of the supervision of the credit
(a) expressly renounces the admission or has carried out neither intermediary on behalf of which it acts.
credit intermediation activities set out in point 5 of
Article 4 nor provided advisory services for the preceding
six months, unless the Member State concerned has
2. The competent authorities of the Member States in which
provided for admission to lapse in such cases;
a credit intermediary has a branch shall be responsible for
ensuring that the services provided by the credit intermediary
within its territory comply with the obligations laid down in
(b) has obtained the admission through false or misleading Article 7(1) and Articles 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20,
statements or any other irregular means; 22 and 39 and in measures adopted pursuant thereto.
L 60/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
Where the competent authorities of a host Member State persists in acting in a manner that is clearly prejudicial to the
ascertain that a credit intermediary that has a branch within interests of the host Member State consumers or orderly func­
its territory is in breach of the measures adopted in that tioning of the markets, the competent authority of the host
Member State pursuant to Article 7(1) and Articles 8, 9, 10, Member State:
11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 22 and 39, those authorities shall
require the credit intermediary concerned to put an end to its
irregular situation.
(a) shall, after having informed the competent authority of the
home Member State, take all appropriate action needed to
protect consumers and ensure the proper functioning of the
If the credit intermediary concerned fails to take the necessary markets, including by preventing the offending credit inter­
steps, the competent authorities of the host Member State shall mediary from initiating any further transactions within its
take all appropriate action to ensure that the credit intermediary territory. The Commission and EBA shall be informed of
concerned puts an end to its irregular situation. The nature of such action without undue delay;
that action shall be communicated to the competent authorities
of the home Member State.
(b) may refer the matter to EBA and request its assistance in
accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU)
If, despite the action taken by the host Member State, the credit
No 1093/2010. In that case EBA may act in accordance
intermediary persists in breaching the measures referred to in
with the powers conferred on it by that Article.
the first subparagraph in force in the host Member State, the
host Member State may, after informing the competent auth­
orities of the home Member State, take appropriate action to
prevent or to penalise further irregularities and, in so far as 5. Member States shall provide that, where a credit inter­
necessary, to prevent the credit intermediary from initiating mediary admitted in another Member State has established a
any further transactions within its territory. The Commission branch within its territory, the competent authorities of the
shall be informed of any such action without undue delay. home Member State, in the exercise of their responsibilities
and after having informed the competent authorities of the
host Member State, may carry out on-site inspections in that
branch.
Where the competent authority of the home Member State
disagrees with such action taken by the host Member State, it
may refer the matter to EBA and request its assistance in
accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
6. The allocation of tasks between Member States specified in
In that case, EBA may act in accordance with the powers
this Article shall be without prejudice to the Member States’
conferred on it by that Article.
competences in relation to fields not covered by this Directive
in conformity with their obligations under Union law.
3. The competent authorities of the Member States in which
the branch is located shall have the right to examine branch
CHAPTER 12
arrangements and to request such changes as are strictly needed
to fulfil its responsibilities under paragraph 2 and to enable the ADMISSION AND SUPERVISION OF NON-CREDIT
competent authorities of the home Member State to enforce the INSTITUTIONS
obligations under Article 7(2), (3) and (4) and measures adopted
pursuant thereto with respect to the services provided by the Article 35
branch.
Admission and supervision of non-credit institutions
Member States shall ensure that non-credit institutions are
subject to adequate admission process including entering the
4. Where the competent authority of the host Member State
non-credit institution in a register and supervision arrangements
has clear and demonstrable grounds for concluding that a credit
by a competent authority.
intermediary acting within its territory under the freedom to
provide services is in breach of the obligations arising from
the measures adopted pursuant to this Directive or that a
credit intermediary that has a branch within its territory is in CHAPTER 13
breach of the obligations arising from the measures adopted
pursuant to this Directive, other than those specified in COOPERATION BETWEEN COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF
paragraph 2, it shall refer those findings to the competent DIFFERENT MEMBER STATES
authority of the home Member State which shall take the
Article 36
appropriate action.
Obligation to cooperate
1. Competent authorities of different Member States shall
Where the competent authority of the home Member State fails cooperate with each other whenever necessary for the
to take any action within one month from obtaining those purpose of carrying out their duties under this Directive,
findings or where, despite the action taken by the competent making use of their powers, whether set out in this Directive
authority of the home Member State, a credit intermediary or in national law.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/67
Competent authorities shall render assistance to competent (b) judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of
authorities of the other Member States. In particular, they the same actions and the same persons before the auth­
shall exchange information and cooperate in any investigation orities of the Member State addressed;
or supervisory activities.
(c) final judgement has already been delivered in the Member
State addressed in respect of the same persons and the same
In order to facilitate and accelerate cooperation, and more
actions.
particularly the exchange of information, Member States shall
designate one single competent authority as a contact point for
the purposes of this Directive. Member States shall
communicate to the Commission and to the other Member In the event of such a refusal, the competent authority shall
States the names of the authorities which are designated to notify the requesting competent authority accordingly,
receive requests for exchange of information or cooperation providing as detailed information as possible.
pursuant to this paragraph.
Article 37
2. Member States shall take the necessary administrative and Settlement of disagreements between competent
organisational measures to facilitate assistance provided for in authorities of different Member States
paragraph 1.
The competent authorities may refer the situation to EBA where
a request for cooperation, in particular the exchange of
information, has been rejected or has not been acted upon
within a reasonable time, and request EBA’s assistance in
3. Competent authorities of Member States having been
accordance with Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010.
designated as contact points for the purposes of this Directive
In such cases, EBA may act in accordance with the powers
in accordance with paragraph 1 shall without undue delay
conferred on it by that Article and any binding decision
supply one another with the information required for the
made by EBA in accordance with that Article shall be binding
purposes of carrying out the duties of the competent auth­
on the competent authorities concerned regardless of whether
orities, designated in accordance with Article 5, set out in the
those competent authorities are members of EBA or not.
measures adopted pursuant to this Directive.
CHAPTER 14
Competent authorities exchanging information with other
FINAL PROVISIONS
competent authorities under this Directive may indicate at the
time of communication that such information must not be Article 38
disclosed without their express agreement, in which case such
Sanctions
information may be exchanged solely for the purposes for
which those authorities gave their agreement. 1. Member States shall lay down the rules on sanctions
applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted
on the basis of this Directive and shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Those
The competent authority having been designated as the contact sanctions shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
point may transmit the information received to the other
competent authorities, however it shall not transmit the
information to other bodies or natural or legal persons
2. Member States shall provide that the competent authority
without the express agreement of the competent authorities
may disclose to the public any administrative sanction that will
which disclosed it and solely for the purposes for which
be imposed for infringement of the measures adopted in the
those authorities gave their agreement, except in duly justified
transposition of this Directive, unless such disclosure would
circumstances in which case it shall immediately inform the
seriously jeopardise the financial markets or cause dispropor­
contact point that supplied the information.
tionate damage to the parties involved.
4. A competent authority may refuse to act on a request for Article 39
cooperation in carrying out an investigation or supervisory
Dispute resolution mechanisms
activity or to exchange information as provided for in
paragraph 3 only where: 1. Member States shall ensure that appropriate and effective
complaints and redress procedures are established for the out-
of-court settlement of consumer disputes with creditors, credit
intermediaries and appointed representatives in relation to credit
(a) such an investigation, on-the-spot verification, supervisory agreements, using existing bodies where appropriate. Member
activity or exchange of information might adversely affect States shall ensure that such procedures are applicable to
the sovereignty, security or public policy of the Member creditors and credit intermediaries and cover the activities of
State addressed; appointed representatives.
L 60/68 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
2. Member States shall require the bodies responsible for the Article 42
out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes to cooperate so
Transposition
that cross-border disputes concerning credit agreements can be
resolved. 1. Member States shall adopt and publish, by 21 March
2016, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions
necessary to comply with this Directive. They shall forthwith
communicate to the Commission the text of those measures.
Article 40
Exercise of the delegation
1. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the 2. Member States shall apply measures referred to in
Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. paragraph 1 from 21 March 2016.
When Member States adopt those measures, they shall contain a
2. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles
reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a
14(9) and 17(8) shall be conferred on the Commission for an
reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member
indeterminate period of time from 20 March 2014.
States shall determine how such reference is to be made.
3. The delegation of power referred to in Articles 14(9) and
3. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the
17(8) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament
text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in
or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the
the field covered by this Directive.
delegation of the powers specified in that decision. It shall take
effect the day following the publication of the decision in the
Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified
therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts Article 43
already in force.
Transitional provisions
1. This Directive shall not apply to credit agreements existing
before 21 March 2016.
4. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall
notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the
Council.
2. Credit intermediaries already carrying out credit inter­
mediation activities set out in point 5 of Article 4 before
21 March 2016 and which have not yet been admitted in
5. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Articles 14(9) and accordance with the conditions set out in the national law of
17(8) shall enter into force only if no objection has been the home Member State transposing this Directive may continue
expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council to carry out those activities in compliance with national law
within a period of three months of notification of that act to until 21 March 2017. Where a credit intermediary relies on this
the European Parliament and to the Council or if, before the derogation it may perform the activities only within their home
expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council Member State unless it also satisfies the necessary legal
have both informed the Commission that they will not object. requirements of the host Member States.
That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative
of the European Parliament or of the Council.
3. Creditors, credit intermediaries or appointed represen­
tatives performing activities regulated by this Directive before
Article 41 20 March 2014 shall comply with the national law transposing
Article 9 by 21 March 2017.
Imperative nature of this Directive
Member States shall ensure that:
Article 44
Review clause
(a) consumers may not waive the rights conferred on them by
national law transposing this Directive; The Commission shall undertake a review of this Directive by
21 March 2019. The review shall consider the effectiveness and
appropriateness of the provisions on consumers and the
internal market.
(b) the measures they adopt in transposing this Directive
cannot be circumvented in a way which could lead to
consumers losing the protection granted by this Directive
The review shall include the following:
as a result of the way in which agreements are formulated,
in particular by integrating credit agreements falling within
the scope of this Directive into credit agreements the
character or purpose of which would make it possible to (a) an assessment of the use and consumer understanding of
avoid the application of those measures. and satisfaction with the ESIS;
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/69
(b) an analysis of other pre-contractual disclosures; examine the need for the supervision of credit registers and the
possibility for the development of more flexible and reliable
markets. That report shall be accompanied, where appropriate,
by legislative proposals.
(c) an analysis of cross-border business by credit intermediaries
and creditors;
Article 46
(d) an analysis of the evolution of the market for non-credit Amendment of Directive 2008/48/EC
institutions providing credit agreements relating to resi­
In Article 2 of Directive 2008/48/EC, the following paragraph is
dential immovable property;
inserted:
(e) an assessment on the need for further measures, including a
‘2a. Notwithstanding point (c) of paragraph 2, this
passport for non-credit institutions providing credit
Directive shall apply to unsecured credit agreements the
agreements relating to residential immovable property;
purpose of which is the renovation of a residential
immovable property involving a total amount of credit
above EUR 75 000.’
(f) an examination of the need to introduce additional rights
and obligations with regard to the post-contractual stage of
credit agreements;
Article 47
Amendment of Directive 2013/36/EU
(g) an assessment of whether the scope of this Directive In Directive 2013/36/EU, the following Article is inserted:
remains appropriate, taking account of its impact on
other, substitutable forms of credit;
‘Article 54a
Articles 53 and 54 shall be without prejudice to the powers
(h) an assessment of whether additional measures are necessary
of investigation conferred on the European Parliament
to ensure the traceability of credit agreements secured
pursuant to Article 226 TFEU.’
against residential immovable property;
Article 48
(i) an assessment of the availability of data on trends in prices
of residential immovable property and on the extent to Amendment of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010
which data are comparable;
Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 is amended as follows:
(j) an assessment of whether it continues to be appropriate to
(1) The second subparagraph of Article 13(1) is replaced by the
apply Directive 2008/48/EC to unsecured credits the
following:
purpose of which is the renovation of a residential
immovable property involving a total amount of credit
above the maximum amount specified in point (c) of
Article 2(2) of that Directive; ‘Where the Commission adopts a regulatory technical
standard which is the same as the draft regulatory
technical standard submitted by the Authority, the period
during which the European Parliament and the Council may
(k) an assessment of whether the arrangements for the
object shall be 1 month from the date of notification. At
publication of sanctions under Article 38(2) provide
the initiative of the European Parliament or the Council that
sufficient transparency;
period shall be extended for an initial period of 1 month
and shall be extendable for a further period of 1 month.’
(l) an assessment of the proportionality of warnings referred to
in Articles 11(6) and 13(2) and the potential for further
(2) The second subparagraph of Article 17(2) is replaced by the
harmonisation of risk warnings.
following:
Article 45 ‘Without prejudice to the powers laid down in Article 35,
the competent authority shall, without delay, provide the
Further initiatives on responsible lending and borrowing
Authority with all information which the Authority
By 21 March 2019, the Commission shall submit a compre­ considers necessary for its investigation including as to
hensive report assessing the wider challenges of private over- how the acts referred to in Article 1(2) are applied in
indebtedness directly linked to credit activity. It will also accordance with Union law.’
L 60/70 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
Article 49
Entry into force
This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official
Journal of the European Union.
Article 50
Addressees
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 4 February 2014.
For the European Parliament For the Council
The President The President
M. SCHULZ E. VENIZELOS
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/71
ANNEX I
CALCULATION OF THE ANNUAL PERCENTAGE RATE OF CHARGE (APRC)
I. Basic equation expressing the equivalence of drawdowns on the one hand and repayments and charges on the other.
The basic equation, which establishes the annual percentage rate of charge (APRC), equates, on an annual basis, the
total present value of drawdowns on the one hand and the total present value of repayments and payments of charges
on the other hand, i.e.:
m m′
k 1
C
k
ð1
þ
X
Þ
Ät k
¼
l 1
D
l
ð1
þ
X
Þ
ÄSl
X¼ X¼
where:
— X is the APRC
— m is the number of the last drawdown
— k is the number of a drawdown, thus 1 ≤ k ≤ m
— C
k
is the amount of drawdown k
— t
k
is the interval, expressed in years and fractions of a year, between the date of the first drawdown and the date of
each subsequent drawdown, thus t
1
= 0
— m′ is the number of the last repayment or payment of charges
— l is the number of a repayment or payment of charges
— D
l
is the amount of a repayment or payment of charges
— s
l
is the interval, expressed in years and fractions of a year, between the date of the first drawdown and the date of
each repayment or payment of charges.
Remarks:
(a) The amounts paid by both parties at different times shall not necessarily be equal and shall not necessarily be paid
at equal intervals.
(b) The starting date shall be that of the first drawdown.
(c) Intervals between dates used in the calculations shall be expressed in years or in fractions of a year. A year is
presumed to have 365 days (or 366 days for leap years), 52 weeks or 12 equal months. An equal month is
presumed to have 30,41666 days (i.e. 365/12) regardless of whether or not it is a leap year.
Where intervals between dates used in the calculations cannot be expressed as a whole number of weeks, months
or years, the intervals shall be expressed as a whole number of one of those periods in combination with a
number of days. Where using days:
(i) every day shall be counted, including weekends and holidays;
(ii) equal periods and then days shall be counted backwards to the date of the initial drawdown;
(iii) the length of the period of days shall be obtained excluding the first day and including the last day and shall
be expressed in years by dividing this period by the number of days (365 or 366 days) of the complete year
counted backwards from the last day to the same day of the previous year.
(d) The result of the calculation shall be expressed with an accuracy of at least one decimal place. If the figure at the
following decimal place is greater than or equal to 5, the figure at the preceding decimal place shall be increased
by one.
L 60/72 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(e) The equation can be rewritten using a single sum and the concept of flows (A
k
) , which will be positive or negative,
in other words either paid or received during periods 1 to n, expressed in years, i.e.:
n
S
¼
k 1
A
k
ð1
þ
X
Þ
Ät k;
X¼
S being the present balance of flows. If the aim is to maintain the equivalence of flows, the value will be zero.
II. Additional assumptions for the calculation of the APRC
(a) If a credit agreement gives the consumer freedom of drawdown, the total amount of credit shall be deemed to be
drawn down immediately and in full.
(b) If a credit agreement provides different ways of drawdown with different charges or borrowing rates, the total
amount of credit shall be deemed to be drawn down at the highest charge and borrowing rate applied to the most
common drawdown mechanism for this type of credit agreement.
(c) If a credit agreement gives the consumer freedom of drawdown in general but imposes, amongst the different
ways of drawdown, a limitation with regard to the amount of credit and period of time, the amount of credit
shall be deemed to be drawn down on the earliest date provided for in the credit agreement and in accordance
with those drawdown limits.
(d) If different borrowing rates and charges are offered for a limited period or amount, the highest borrowing rate
and charges shall be deemed to be the borrowing rate and charges for the whole duration of the credit agreement.
(e) For credit agreements for which a fixed borrowing rate is agreed in relation to the initial period, at the end of
which a new borrowing rate is determined and subsequently periodically adjusted according to an agreed indicator
or internal reference rate the calculation of the APRC shall be based on the assumption that, at the end of the
fixed borrowing rate period, the borrowing rate is the same as at the time of calculation of the APRC, based on
the value of the agreed indicator or internal reference rate at that time, but is not less than the fixed borrowing
rate.
(f) If the ceiling applicable to the credit has not yet been agreed, that ceiling is assumed to be EUR 170 000. In the
case of credit agreements — other than contingent liabilities or guarantees — the purpose of which is not to
acquire or retain a right in immovable property or land, overdrafts, deferred debit cards or credit cards this ceiling
is assumed to be EUR 1 500.
(g) In the case of credit agreements other than overdrafts, bridging loans, shared equity credit agreements, contingent
liabilities or guarantees and open-ended credit agreements as referred to in the assumptions set out in points (i),
(j), (k), (l) and (m):
(i) if the date or amount of a repayment of capital to be made by the consumer cannot be ascertained, it shall be
assumed that the repayment is made at the earliest date provided for in the credit agreement and is for the
lowest amount for which the credit agreement provides;
(ii) if the interval between the date of initial drawdown and the date of the first payment to be made by the
consumer cannot be ascertained, it shall be assumed to be the shortest interval.
(h) Where the date or amount of a payment to be made by the consumer cannot be ascertained on the basis of the
credit agreement or the assumptions set out in points (g), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) it shall be assumed that the
payment is made in accordance with the dates and conditions required by the creditor and, when these are
unknown:
(i) interest charges are paid together with the repayments of the capital;
(ii) non-interest charges expressed as a single sum are paid at the date of the conclusion of the credit agreement;
(iii) non-interest charges expressed as several payments are paid at regular intervals, commencing with the date of
the first repayment of capital, and if the amount of such payments is not known they shall be assumed to be
equal amounts;
(iv) the final payment clears the balance of capital, interest and other charges, if any.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/73
(i) In the case of an overdraft facility, the total amount of credit shall be deemed to be drawn down in full and for
the whole duration of the credit agreement. If the duration of the overdraft facility is not known, the APRC shall
be calculated on the assumption that the duration of the credit is three months.
(j) In the case of a bridging loan, the total amount of credit shall be deemed to be drawn down in full and for the
whole duration of the credit agreement. If the duration of the credit agreement is not known the APRC shall be
calculated on the assumption that the duration of the credit is 12 months.
(k) In the case of an open ended credit agreement, other than an overdraft facility and bridging loan, it shall be
assumed that:
(i) for credit agreements, the purpose of which is to acquire or retain rights in immovable property the credit is
provided for a period of 20 years starting from the date of the initial drawdown, and that the final payment
made by the consumer clears the balance of capital, interest and other charges, if any; in the case of credit
agreements the purpose of which is not to acquire or retain rights in immovable property or which are drawn
down by deferred debit cards or credit cards, this period shall be of one year;
(ii) the capital is repaid by the consumer in equal monthly payments, commencing one month after the date of
the initial drawdown. However, in cases where the capital must be repaid only in full, in a single payment,
within each payment period, successive drawdowns and repayments of the entire capital by the consumer
shall be assumed to occur over the period of one year. Interest and other charges shall be applied in
accordance with those drawdowns and repayments of capital and as provided for in the credit agreement.
For the purposes of this point, an open-ended credit agreement is a credit agreement without fixed duration and
includes credits which must be repaid in full within or after a period but, once repaid, become available to be
drawn down again.
(l) In the case of contingent liabilities or guarantees, the total amount of credit shall be deemed to be drawn down in
full as a single amount at the earlier of:
(a) the latest draw down date permitted under the credit agreement being the potential source of the contingent
liability or guarantee; or
(b) in the case of a rolling credit agreement at the end of the initial period prior to the rollover of the agreement.
(m) In the case of shared equity credit agreements:
(i) the payments by consumers shall be deemed to occur at the latest date or dates permitted under the credit
agreement;
(ii) percentage increases in value of the immovable property which secures the shared equity credit agreement,
and the rate of any inflation index referred to in the agreement, shall be assumed to be a percentage equal to
the higher of the current central bank target inflation rate or the level of inflation in the Member State where
the immovable property is located at the time of conclusion of the credit agreement or 0 % if those
percentages are negative.
L 60/74 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
ANNEX II
EUROPEAN STANDARDISED INFORMATION SHEET (ESIS)
PART A
The text in this model shall be reproduced as such in the ESIS. Indications between square brackets shall be replaced with
the corresponding information. Instructions for the creditor or, where applicable, credit intermediary on how to complete
the ESIS are provided in Part B.
Wherever the words ‘where applicable’ are indicated, the creditor shall provide the information required if it is relevant to
the credit agreement. Where the information is not relevant, the creditor shall delete the information in question or the
entire section (for example, in cases where the section is not applicable). Where the entire section is deleted, the
numbering of the ESIS sections shall be adjusted accordingly.
The information below shall be provided in a single document. The font used shall be clearly readable. Bold font, shading
or larger font sizes shall be used for the information elements to be highlighted. All applicable risk warnings shall be
highlighted.
ESIS Model
(Introductory text)
This document was produced for [name of consumer] on [current date].
This document was produced on the basis of the information that you have provided so far and on the current
financial market conditions.
The information below remains valid until [validity date], (where applicable) apart from the interest rate and other
costs. After that date, it may change in line with market conditions.
(Where applicable) This document does not constitute an obligation for [name of creditor] to grant you a loan.
1. Lender
[Name]
[Telephone number]
[Geographical address]
(Optional) [E-mail address]
(Optional) [Fax number]
(Optional) [Web address]
(Optional) [Contact person/point]
(Where applicable information as to whether advisory services are being provided:) [(We recommend, having assessed
your needs and circumstances, that you take out this mortgage./We are not recommending a particular mortgage for
you. However, based on your answers to some questions, we are giving you information about this mortgage so that
you can make your own choice.)]
2. (Where applicable) Credit intermediary
[Name]
[Telephone number]
[Geographical address]
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/75
(Optional) [E-mail address]
(Optional) [Fax number]
(Optional) [Web address]
(Optional) [Contact person/point]
(Where applicable [information as to whether advisory services are being provided]) [(We recommend, having assessed
your needs and circumstances, that you take out this mortgage./We are not recommending a particular mortgage for
you. However, based on your answers to some questions, we are giving you information about this mortgage so that
you can make your own choice.)]
[Remuneration]
3. Main features of the loan
Amount and currency of the loan to be granted: [value][currency]
(Where applicable) This loan is not in [national currency of the borrower].
(Where applicable) The value of your loan in [national currency of the borrower] could change.
(Where applicable) For example, if the value of [national currency of the borrower] fell by 20 % relative to [credit
currency], the value of your loan would increase to [insert amount in national currency of the borrower]. However, it
could be more than this if the value of [national currency of the borrower] falls by more than 20 %.
(Where applicable) The maximum value of your loan will be [insert amount in national currency of the borrower].
(Where applicable) You will receive a warning if the credit amount reaches [insert amount in national currency of the
borrower]. (Where applicable) You will have the opportunity to [insert right to renegotiate foreign currency loan or
right to convert loan into [relevant currency] and conditions].
Duration of the loan: [duration]
[Type of loan]
[Type of applicable interest rate]
Total amount to be reimbursed:
This means that you will pay back [amount] for every [unit of the currency] borrowed.
(Where applicable) [This/Part of this] is an interest-only loan. You will still owe [insert amount of loan on an interest-
only basis] at the end of the mortgage term.
(Where applicable) Value of the property assumed to prepare this information sheet: [insert amount]
(Where applicable) Maximum available loan amount relative to the value of the property [insert ratio] or Minimum
value of the property required to borrow the illustrated amount [insert amount]
(Where applicable) [Security]
4. Interest rate and other costs
The annual percentage rate of charge (APRC) is the total cost of the loan expressed as an annual percentage. The APRC
is provided to help you to compare different offers.
The APRC applicable to your loan is [APRC].
L 60/76 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
It comprises:
Interest rate [value in percentage or, where applicable, indication of a reference rate and percentage value of creditor’s
spread]
[Other components of the APRC]
Costs to be paid on a one-off basis
(Where applicable) You will need to pay a fee to register the mortgage. [Insert amount of fee where known or basis for
calculation.]
Costs to be paid regularly
(Where applicable) This APRC is calculated using assumptions regarding the interest rate.
(Where applicable) Because [part of] your loan is a variable interest rate loan, the actual APRC could be different from
this APRC if the interest rate for your loan changes. For example, if the interest rate rose to [scenario as described in
Part B], the APRC could increase to [insert illustrative APRC corresponding to the scenario].
(Where applicable) Please note that this APRC is calculated on the basis that the interest rate remains at the level fixed
for the initial period throughout the duration of the contract.
(Where applicable) The following costs are not known to the lender and are therefore not included in the APRC:
[Costs]
(Where applicable) You will need to pay a fee to register the mortgage.
Please make sure that you are aware of all other taxes and costs associated with your loan.
5. Frequency and number of payments
Repayment frequency: [frequency]
Number of payments: [number]
6. Amount of each instalment
[Amount] [currency]
Your income may change. Please consider whether you will still be able to afford your [frequency] repayment
instalments if your income falls.
(Where applicable) Because [this/part of this] is an interest-only loan you will need to make separate arrangements to
repay the [insert amount of loan on an interest-only basis] you will owe at the end of the mortgage term. Remember
to add any extra payments you will need to make to the instalment amount shown here.
(Where applicable) The interest rate on [part of] this loan can change. This means the amount of your instalments
could increase or decrease. For example, if the interest rate rose to [scenario as described in Part B] your payments
could increase to [insert instalment amount corresponding to the scenario].
(Where applicable) The value of the amount you have to pay in [national currency of the borrower] each [frequency of
instalment] could change. (Where applicable) Your payments could increase to [insert maximum amount in national
currency of the borrower] each [insert period]. (Where applicable) For example, if the value of [national currency of the
borrower] fell by 20 % relative to [credit currency] you would have to pay an extra [insert amount in national currency
of the borrower] each [insert period]. Your payments could increase by more than this.
(Where applicable) The exchange rate used for converting your repayment in [credit currency] to [national currency of
the borrower] will be the rate published by [name of institution publishing exchange rate] on [date] or will be
calculated on [date] using [insert name of benchmark or method of calculation].
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/77
(Where applicable) [Details on tied savings products, deferred-interest loans]
7. (Where applicable) Illustrative repayment table
This table shows the amount to be paid every [frequency].
The instalments (column [relevant no.]) are the sum of interest to be paid (column [relevant no.]), where applicable,
capital paid (column [relevant no.]) and, where applicable, other costs (column [relevant no.]). (Where applicable) The
costs in the other costs column relate to [list of costs]. Outstanding capital (column [relevant no.]) is the amount of the
loan that remains to be reimbursed after each instalment.
[Table]
8. Additional obligations
The borrower must comply with the following obligations in order to benefit from the lending conditions described in
this document.
[Obligations]
(Where applicable) Please note that the lending conditions described in this document (including the interest rate) may
change if these obligations are not complied with.
(Where applicable) Please note the possible consequences of terminating at a later stage any of the ancillary services
relating to the loan:
[Consequences]
9. Early repayment
You have the possibility to repay this loan early, either fully or partially.
(Where applicable) [Conditions]
(Where applicable) Exit charge: [insert amount or, where not possible, the method of calculation]
(Where applicable) Should you decide to repay this loan early, please contact us to ascertain the exact level of the exit
charge at that moment.
10. Flexible features
(Where applicable) [Information on portability/subrogation] You have the possibility to transfer this loan to another
[lender][or] [property]. [Insert conditions]
(Where applicable) You do not have the possibility to transfer this loan to another [lender] [or] [property].
(Where applicable) Additional features: [insert explanation of additional features listed in Part B and, optionally, any
other features offered by the lender as part of the credit agreement not referred to in previous sections].
11. Other rights of the borrower
(Where applicable) You have [length of reflection period] after [point in time when the reflection period begins] to
reflect before committing yourself to taking out this loan. (Where applicable) Once you have received the credit
contract from the lender, you may not accept it before the end of [length of reflection period].
(Where applicable) For a period of [length of withdrawal period] after [point in time when the withdrawal period
begins] you may exercise your right to cancel the agreement. [Conditions] [Insert procedure]
L 60/78 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(Where applicable) You may lose your right to cancel the agreement if, during that period, you buy or sell a property
connected to this credit agreement.
(Where applicable) Should you decide to exercise your right of withdrawal [from the credit agreement], please verify
whether you will remain bound by your other obligations relating to the loan [including the ancillary services relating
to the loan] [, referred to in Section 8].
12. Complaints
If you have a complaint please contact [insert internal contact point and source of information on procedure].
(Where applicable) Maximum time for handling the complaint [period of time]
(Where applicable) [If we do not resolve the complaint to your satisfaction internally,] you can also contact: [insert
name of external body for out-of-court complaints and redress] (Where applicable) or you can contact FIN-NET for
details of the equivalent body in your own country.
13. Non-compliance with the commitments linked to the loan: consequences for the borrower
[Types of non-compliance]
[Financial and/or legal consequences]
Should you encounter difficulties in making your [frequency] payments, please contact us straight away to explore
possible solutions.
(Where applicable) As a last resort, your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up with payments.
(Where applicable) 14. Additional information
(Where applicable) [Indication of the law applicable to the credit contract].
(Where the lender intends to use a language different from the language of the ESIS) Information and contractual terms
will be supplied in [language]. With your consent, we intend to communicate in [language/s] during the duration of
the credit agreement.
[Insert statement on right to be provided with or offered, as applicable, a draft credit agreement]
15. Supervisor
This lender is supervised by [Name(s), and web address(es) of supervisory authority/ies]
(Where applicable) This credit intermediary is supervised by [Name and web address of supervisory authority].
PART B
Instructions to complete the ESIS
In completing the ESIS, at least the following instructions shall be followed. Member States may however elaborate or
further specify the instructions for completing the ESIS.
Section ‘Introductory text’
(1) The validity date shall be properly highlighted. For the purpose of this section, the ‘validity date’ means the length of
time the information, e.g. the borrowing rate, contained in the ESIS will remain unchanged and will apply should the
creditor decide to grant the credit within this period of time. Where the determination of the applicable borrowing
rate and other costs depends on the results of the selling of underlying bonds, the eventual borrowing rate and other
costs may be different from those stated. In those circumstances only, it shall be stipulated that the validity date does
not apply to the borrowing rate and other costs by adding the words: ‘apart from the interest rate and other costs’.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/79
Section ‘1. Lender’
(1) Name, telephone number, and geographical address of the creditor shall refer to the contact information that the
consumer may use for future correspondence.
(2) Information on the e-mail address, fax number, web address and contact person/point is optional.
(3) In line with Article 3 of Directive 2002/65/EC, where the transaction is being offered at a distance, the creditor shall
indicate, where applicable, the name and geographical address of its representative in the Member State of residence
of the consumer. Indication of the telephone number, e-mail address and web address of the representative of the
credit provider is optional.
(4) Where Section 2 is not applicable, the creditor shall inform the consumer whether advisory services are being
provided and on what basis using the wording in Part A.
(Where applicable) Section ‘2. Credit intermediary’
Where the product information is being provided to the consumer by a credit intermediary, that intermediary shall
include the following information:
(1) Name, telephone number and geographical address of the credit intermediary shall refer to the contact information
that the consumer may use for future correspondence.
(2) Information on the e-mail address, fax number, web address and contact person/point is optional.
(3) The credit intermediary shall inform the consumer whether advisory services are being provided and on what basis
using the wording in Part A.
(4) An explanation of how the credit intermediary is being remunerated. Where it is receiving commission from a
creditor, the amount and, where different from the name in Section 1, the name of the creditor shall be provided.
Section ‘3. Main features of the loan’
(1) This section shall clearly explain the main characteristics of the credit, including the value and currency and the
potential risks associated with the borrowing rate, including the ones referred to in point (8), and amortisation
structure.
(2) Where the credit currency is different from the national currency of the consumer, the creditor shall indicate that the
consumer will receive a regular warning at least when the exchange rate fluctuates by more than 20 %, where
applicable the right to convert the currency of the credit agreement or to the possibility to renegotiate the conditions
and any other arrangements available to the consumer to limit their exposure to exchange rate risk. Where there is a
provision in the credit agreement to limit the exchange rate risk, the creditor shall indicate the maximum amount
the consumer could have to pay back. Where there is no provision in the credit agreement to limit the exchange rate
risk to which the consumer is exposed to a fluctuation in the exchange rate of less than 20 %, the creditor shall
indicate an illustration of the effect of a 20 % fall in the value of consumer’s national currency relative to the credit
currency on the value of the credit.
(3) The duration of the credit shall be expressed in years or months, whichever is the most relevant. Where the duration
of the credit can vary during the lifetime of the contract, the creditor shall explain when and under which conditions
this can occur. Where the credit is open-ended, for example, for a secured credit card, the creditor shall clearly state
that fact.
(4) The type of credit shall be clearly indicated (e.g. mortgage credit, home loan, secured credit card). The description of
the type of credit shall clearly indicate how the capital and the interest shall be reimbursed during the life of the
credit (i.e. the amortisation structure), specifying clearly whether the credit agreement is on capital repayment or
interest-only basis, or a mixture of the two.
(5) Where all or part of the credit is an interest-only credit, a statement clearly indicating that fact shall be inserted
prominently at the end of this section using the wording in Part A.
(6) This section shall explain whether the borrowing rate is fixed or variable and, where applicable, the periods during
which it will remain fixed; the frequency of subsequent revisions and the existence of limits to the borrowing rate
variability, such as caps or floors.
L 60/80 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
The formula used to revise the borrowing rate and its different components (e.g. reference rate, interest rate spread)
shall be explained. The creditor shall indicate, e.g. by means of a web address, where further information on the
indices or rates used in the formula can be found, e.g. Euribor or central bank reference rate.
(7) If different borrowing rates apply in different circumstances, the information shall be provided on all applicable
rates.
(8) The ‘total amount to be reimbursed’ corresponds to the total amount payable by the consumer. It shall be shown as
the sum of the credit amount and the total cost of the credit to the consumer. Where the borrowing rate is not fixed
for the duration of the contract, it shall be highlighted that this amount is illustrative and may vary in particular in
relation with the variation in the borrowing rate.
(9) Where the credit will be secured by a mortgage on the immovable property or another comparable security or by a
right related to immovable property, the creditor shall draw the consumer’s attention to this. Where applicable the
creditor shall indicate the assumed value of the immovable property or other security used for the purpose of
preparing this information sheet.
(10) The creditor shall indicate, where applicable, either:
a) ‘maximum available loan amount relative to the value of the property’, indicating the loan-to-value ratio. This
ratio is to be accompanied by an example in absolute terms of the maximum amount that can be borrowed for a
given property value; or
b) the ‘minimum value of the property required by the creditor to lend the illustrated amount’.
(11) Where credits are multi-part credits (e.g. concurrently part fixed rate, part variable rate), this shall be reflected in the
indication of the type of credit and the required information shall be given for each part of the credit.
Section ‘4. Interest rate’ and other costs
(1) The reference to ‘interest rate’ corresponds to the borrowing rate or rates.
(2) The borrowing rate shall be mentioned as a percentage value. Where the borrowing rate is variable and based on a
reference rate the creditor may indicate the borrowing rate by stating a reference rate and a percentage value of
creditor’s spread. The creditor shall however indicate the value of the reference rate valid on the day of issuing the
ESIS.
Where the borrowing rate is variable the information shall include: (a) the assumptions used to calculate the APRC;
(b) where relevant, the applicable caps and floors and (c) a warning that the variability could affect the actual level of
the APRC. In order to attract the consumer’s attention the font size used for the warning shall be bigger and shall
figure prominently in the main body of the ESIS. The warning shall be accompanied by an illustrative example on the
APRC. Where there is a cap on the borrowing rate, the example shall assume that the borrowing rate rises at the
earliest possible opportunity to the highest level foreseen in the credit agreement. Where there is no cap the example
shall illustrate the APRC at the highest borrowing rate in at least the last 20 years, or where the underlying data for
the calculation of the borrowing rate is available for a period of less than 20 years the longest period for which such
data is available, based on the highest value of any external reference rate used in calculating the borrowing rate
where applicable or the highest value of a benchmark rate specified by a competent authority or EBA where the
creditor does not use an external reference rate. Such requirement shall not apply to credit agreements where the
borrowing rate is fixed for a material initial period of several years and may then be fixed for a further period
following negotiation between the creditor and the consumer. For credit agreements where the borrowing rate is fixed
for a material initial period of several years and may then be fixed for a further period following negotiation between
the creditor and the consumer, the information shall include a warning that the APRC is calculated on the basis of the
borrowing rate for the initial period. The warning shall be accompanied by an additional, illustrative APRC calculated
in accordance with Article 17(4). Where credits are multi-part credits (e.g. concurrently part fixed rate, part variable
rate), the information shall be given for each part of the credit.
(3) In the section on ‘other components of the APRC’ all the other costs contained in the APRC shall be listed, including
one-off costs such as administration fees, and regular costs, such as annual administration fees. The creditor shall list
each of the costs by category (costs to be paid on a one-off basis, costs to be paid regularly and included in the
instalments, costs to be paid regularly but not included in the instalments), indicating their amount, to whom they are
to be paid and when. This does not have to include costs incurred for breaches of contractual obligations. Where the
amount is not known, the creditor shall provide an indication of the amount if possible, or if not possible, how the
amount will be calculated and specify that the amount provided is indicative only. Where certain costs are not
included in the APRC because they are unknown to the creditor, this shall be highlighted.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/81
Where the consumer has informed the creditor of one or more components of his preferred credit, such as the
duration of the credit agreement and the total amount of credit, the creditor shall, where possible, use those
components; if a credit agreement provides different ways of drawdown with different charges or borrowing rates
and the creditor uses the assumptions set out in Part II of Annex I, it shall indicate that other drawdown mechanisms
for this type of credit agreement may result in a higher APRC. Where the conditions for drawdown are used for
calculating the APRC, the creditor shall highlight the charges associated with other drawdown mechanisms that are
not necessarily the ones used in calculating the APRC.
(4) Where a fee is payable for registration of the mortgage or comparable security that shall be disclosed in this section
with the amount, where known, or where this is not possible the basis for determining the amount. Where the fees
are known and included in the APRC the existence and amount of the fee shall be listed under ‘Costs to be paid on a
one-off basis’. Where the fees are not known to the creditor and therefore not included in the APRC the existence of
the fee shall be clearly mentioned in the list of costs which are not known to the creditor. In either case the
standardised wording in Part A shall be used under the appropriate heading.
Section ‘5. Frequency and number of payments’
(1) Where payments are to be made on a regular basis, the frequency of payments shall be indicated (e.g. monthly).
Where the frequency of payments will be irregular, this shall be clearly explained to the consumer.
(2) The number of payments indicated shall cover the whole duration of the credit.
Section ‘6. Amount of each instalment’
(1) The credit currency and currency of the instalments shall be clearly indicated.
(2) Where the amount of the instalments may change during the life of the credit, the creditor shall specify the period
during which that initial instalment amount will remain unchanged and when and how frequently afterwards it will
change.
(3) Where all or part of the credit is an interest-only credit, a statement clearly indicating that fact, shall be inserted
prominently at the end of this section using the wording in Part A.
If there is a requirement for the consumer to take out a tied savings product as a condition for being granted an
interest-only credit secured by a mortgage or another comparable security, the amount and frequency of any
payments for this product shall be provided.
(4) Where the borrowing rate is variable the information shall include a statement indicating that fact, using the wording
in Part A and an illustration of a maximum instalment amount. Where there is a cap, the illustration shall show the
amount of the instalments if the borrowing rate rises to the level of the cap. Where there is no cap, the worst case
scenario shall illustrate the level of instalments at the highest borrowing rate in the last 20 years, or where the
underlying data for the calculation of the borrowing rate is available for a period of less than 20 years the longest
period for which such data is available, based on the highest value of any external reference rate used in calculating
the borrowing rate where applicable, or the highest value of a benchmark rate specified by a competent authority or
EBA where the creditor does not use an external reference rate. The requirement to provide an illustrative example
shall not apply to credit agreements where the borrowing rate is fixed for a material initial period of several years and
may then be fixed for a further period following negotiation between the creditor and the consumer. Where credits
are multi-part credits (e.g. concurrently part fixed rate, part variable rate), the information shall be given for each part
of the credit, and in total.
(5) (Where applicable) Where the credit currency is different from the consumer’s national currency or where the credit is
indexed to a currency which is different from the consumer’s national currency, the creditor shall include a numerical
example clearly showing how changes to the relevant exchange rate may affect the amount of the instalments using
the wording in Part A. That example shall be based on a 20 % reduction in the value of the consumer’s national
currency together with a prominent statement that the instalments could increase by more than the amount assumed
in that example. Where there is a cap which limits that increase to less than 20 %, the maximum value of the
payments in the consumer’s currency shall be given instead and the statement on the possibility of further increases
omitted.
(6) Where the credit is fully or partly a variable rate credit and point 3 applies, the illustration in point 5 shall be given
on the basis of the instalment amount referred to in point 1.
L 60/82 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
(7) Where the currency used for the payment of instalments is different from the credit currency or where the amount of
each instalment expressed in the consumer’s national currency depends on the corresponding amount in a different
currency, this section shall indicate the date at which the applicable exchange rate is calculated and either the
exchange rate or the basis on which it will be calculated and the frequency of their adjustment. Where applicable
such indication shall include the name of institution publishing the exchange rate.
(8) Where the credit is a deferred-interest credit under which interest due is not fully repaid by the instalments and is
added to the total amount of credit outstanding, there shall be an explanation of: how and when deferred interest is
added to the credit as a cash amount; and what the implications are for the consumer in terms of their remaining
debt.
Section ‘7. Illustrative repayment table’
(1) This section shall be included where the credit is a deferred interest credit under which interest due is not fully repaid
by the instalments and is added to the total amount of credit outstanding or where the borrowing rate is fixed for the
duration of the credit agreement. Member States may provide that the illustrative amortisation table is compulsory in
other cases.
Where the consumer has the right to receive a revised amortisation table, this shall be indicated along with the
conditions under which the consumer has that right.
(2) Member States may require that where the borrowing rate may vary during the lifetime of the credit, the creditor shall
indicate the period during which that initial borrowing rate will remain unchanged.
(3) The table to be included in this section shall contain the following columns: ‘repayment schedule’ (e.g. month 1,
month 2, month 3), ‘amount of the instalment’, ‘interest to be paid per instalment’, ‘other costs included in the
instalment’ (where relevant), ‘capital repaid per instalment’ and ‘outstanding capital after each instalment’.
(4) For the first repayment year the information shall be given for each instalment and a subtotal shall be indicated for
each of the columns at the end of that first year. For the following years, the detail can be provided on an annual
basis. An overall total row shall be added at the end of the table and shall provide the total amounts for each column.
The total cost of the credit paid by the consumer (i.e. the overall sum of the ‘amount of the instalment’ column) shall
be clearly highlighted and presented as such.
(5) Where the borrowing rate is subject to revision and the amount of the instalment after each revision is unknown, the
creditor may indicate in the amortisation table the same instalment amount for the whole credit duration. In such a
case, the creditor shall draw that fact to the attention of the consumer by visually differentiating the amounts which
are known from the hypothetical ones (e.g. using a different font, borders or shading). In addition, a clearly legible
text shall explain for which periods the amounts represented in the table may vary and why.
Section ‘8. Additional obligations’
(1) The creditor shall refer in this section to obligations such as the obligation to insure the immovable property, to
purchase life insurance, to have a salary paid into an account with the creditor or to buy any other product or service.
For each obligation, the creditor shall specify towards whom and by when the obligation needs to be fulfilled.
(2) The creditor shall specify the duration of the obligation, e.g. until the end of the credit agreement. The creditor shall
specify for each obligation any costs to be paid by the consumer, which are not included in the APRC.
(3) The creditor shall state whether it is compulsory for the consumer to hold any ancillary services to obtain the credit
on the stated terms, and if so whether the consumer is obliged to purchase them from the creditor’s preferred supplier
or whether they may be purchased from a provider of consumer’s choice. Where such possibility is conditional on the
ancillary services meeting certain minimum characteristics, such characteristics shall be described in this section.
Where the credit agreement is bundled with other products the creditor shall state the key features of those other
products and clearly state whether the consumer has a right to terminate the credit agreement or the bundled
products separately, the conditions for and implications of doing so, and, where applicable, of the possible
consequences of terminating the ancillary services required in connection with the credit agreement.
Section ‘9. Early repayment’
(1) The creditor shall indicate under what conditions the consumer can repay the credit early, either fully or partially.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/83
(2) In the section on exit charges the creditor shall draw the consumer’s attention to any exit charge or other costs
payable on early repayment in order to compensate the creditor and where possible indicate their amount. In cases
where the amount of compensation would depend on different factors, such as the amount repaid or the prevailing
interest rate at the moment of the early repayment, the creditor shall indicate how the compensation will be
calculated and provide the maximum amount that the charge might be, or where this is not possible, an illustrative
example in order to demonstrate to the consumer the level of compensation under different possible scenarios.
Section ‘10. Flexible features’
(1) Where applicable, the creditor shall explain the possibility to and conditions for transferring the credit to another
creditor or immovable property.
(2) (Where appropriate) Additional features: Where the product contains any of the features listed in point 5, this section
must list these features and provide a brief explanation of: the circumstances in which the consumer can use the
feature; any conditions attached to the feature; if the feature being part of the credit secured by a mortgage or
comparable security means that the consumer loses any statutory or other protections usually associated with the
feature; and the firm providing the feature (if not the creditor).
(3) If the feature contains any additional credit, then this section must explain to the consumer: the total amount of
credit (including the credit secured by the mortgage or comparable security); whether the additional credit is secured
or not; the relevant borrowing rates; and whether it is regulated or not. Such additional credit amount shall either be
included in the original creditworthiness assessment or, if it is not, this section shall make clear that the availability of
the additional amount is dependent on a further assessment of the consumer’s ability to repay.
(4) If the feature involves a savings vehicle, the relevant interest rate must be explained.
(5) The possible additional features are: ‘Overpayments/Underpayments’ [paying more or less than the instalment ordi­
narily required by the amortisation structure]; ‘Payment holidays’ [periods where the consumer is not required to
make payments]; ‘Borrow back’ [ability for the consumer to borrow again funds already drawn down and repaid];
‘Additional borrowing available without further approval’; ‘Additional secured or unsecured borrowing’ [in accordance
with point 3 above]; ‘Credit card’; ‘Linked current account’; and ‘Linked savings account’.
(6) The creditor may include any other features offered by the creditor as part of the credit agreement not mentioned in
previous sections.
Section ‘11. Other rights of the borrower’
(1) The creditor shall clarify the right(s) of e.g. withdrawal or reflection and where applicable other rights such as,
portability (including subrogation) that exist, specify the conditions to which this/these right(s) is subject, the
procedure that the consumer will need to follow in order to exercise this/these right(s), inter alia, the address to
which the notification of withdrawal shall be sent, and the corresponding fees (where applicable).
(2) Where a reflection period or right of withdrawal for the consumer applies this shall be clearly mentioned.
(3) In line with Article 3 of Directive 2002/65/EC, where the transaction is being offered at a distance, the consumer
shall be informed of the existence or absence of a right of withdrawal.
Section ‘12. Complaints’
(1) This Section shall indicate the internal contact point [name of the relevant department] and a means of contacting
them to complain [Geographical address] or [Telephone number] or [Contact person:] [contact details] and a link to
the complaints procedure on the relevant page of a website or similar information source.
(2) It shall indicate the name of the relevant external body for out-of-court complaints and redress and where using the
internal complaint procedure is a precondition for access to that body, indicate that fact using the wording in Part A.
(3) In the case of credit agreements with a consumer who is resident in another Member State, the creditor shall refer to
the existence of FIN-NET (http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/fin-net/).
L 60/84 EN Official Journal of the European Union 28.2.2014
Section ‘13. Non-compliance with the commitments linked to the credit: consequences for the borrower’
(1) Where non-observance of any of the consumer’s obligations linked to the credit may have financial or legal
consequences for the consumer, the creditor shall describe in this section the different main cases (e.g. late payments/
default, failure to respect the obligations set out in Section 8 ‘Additional obligations’) and indicate where further
information could be obtained.
(2) For each of those cases, the creditor shall specify, in clear, easy comprehensible terms, the sanctions or consequences
to which they may give rise. Reference to serious consequences shall be highlighted.
(3) Where the immovable property used to secure the credit may be returned or transferred to the creditor, if the
consumer does not comply with the obligations, this section shall include a statement indicating that fact, using the
wording in Part A.
Section ‘14. Additional information’
(1) In the case of distance marketing, this section will include any clause stipulating the law applicable to the credit
agreement or the competent court.
(2) Where the creditor intends to communicate with the consumer during the life of the contract in a language different
from the language of the ESIS that fact shall be included and the language of communication named. This is without
prejudice to point (g) of point 3 of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of Directive 2002/65/EC.
(3) The creditor or credit intermediary shall state the consumer’s right to be provided with or offered, as applicable, a
copy of the draft credit agreement at least once an offer binding on the creditor has been made.
Section ‘15. Supervisor’
(1) The relevant authority or authorities for the supervision of the pre-contractual stage of lending shall be indicated.
28.2.2014 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 60/85
ANNEX III
MINIMUM KNOWLEDGE AND COMPETENCE REQUIREMENTS
1. The minimum knowledge and competence requirements for creditors’, credit intermediaries’ and appointed representa­
tives’ staff referred to in Article 9 and for persons involved in the management of credit intermediaries or appointed
representatives referred to in point (c) of Article 29(2) and Article 31(2) need to include at least:
(a) appropriate knowledge of credit products within the scope of Article 3 and the ancillary services typically offered
with them;
(b) appropriate knowledge of the laws related to the credit agreements for consumers, in particular consumer
protection;
(c) appropriate knowledge and understanding of the immovable property purchasing process;
(d) appropriate knowledge of security valuation;
(e) appropriate knowledge of organisation and functioning of land registers;
(f) appropriate knowledge of the market in the relevant Member State;
(g) appropriate knowledge of business ethics standards;
(h) appropriate knowledge of the consumer’s creditworthiness assessment process or where applicable, competence in
assessing consumers’ creditworthiness;
(i) appropriate level of financial and economic competency.
2. When establishing minimum knowledge and competence requirements Member States may differentiate between the
levels and types of requirements applicable to the staff of creditors, the staff of credit intermediaries or appointed
representatives and the management of credit intermediaries or appointed representatives.
3. Member States shall determine the appropriate level of knowledge and competence on the basis of:
(a) professional qualifications, e.g. diplomas, degrees, training, competency tests; or
(b) professional experience, which may be defined as a minimum number of years working in areas related to the
origination, distribution or intermediation of credit products.
After 21 March 2019, the determination of the appropriate level of knowledge and competence shall not be based
solely on the methods listed in point (b) of the first subparagraph.